Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE V. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Weight and size limits, C.R.S. §§ 42-4-104, 42-4-106, 42-4-111, 42-4-501—42-4-512.
DIVISION 3. PERMITS
Sec. 42-242. Appeal from permit officer.
Denial, suspension, revocation and termination of
permits
, and conditions attached to permits by the
permit officer
may
be appealed by the
applicant
in the first instance to the
county
road and bridge
department
. The department, for purposes of this article,
shall
refer to the
director
or his designee. Applications for an appeal shall be set forth, in writing, on forms supplied by the permit officer. Such applications shall set forth in detail the basis of such appeal. Such applications shall also state whether a hearing is requested before the department. Hearings shall be held within five days of the filing of a complete application, if such hearing is requested. If no hearing is requested, a written decision on the application shall be rendered within three days of the filing of such completed application. If a hearing is requested and held, a written decision on the appeal shall be rendered within three days following the conclusion of such hearing. Notification of the decision shall be mailed by first class mail to the address supplied on the application. The director may affirm, reverse or modify the matter appealed from. Reversals shall be required only in the event that the decision of the permit officer was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion or not supported by any evidence. The director may, in the alternative, directly negotiate with the applicant for a stipulated agreement as to the matter appealed from. Stipulated agreements shall be final and a term of such agreement shall be the waiver of any further appeal.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3(9-4), 9-8-1997)
Effective on: 9/8/1997