CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-37 Animas Valley rezoning
I.
Applicability
. Applications for development which are not in conformance with the AVLUP shall not be accepted by staff. To be submitted, the plan must first be amended to allow for the intended use or density. The process for rezoning applications shall require a public meeting before the planning commission or joint planning commission, and a subsequent meeting before the board. This section applies to such rezoning applications.
II.
Procedures.
Figure 66-37 below identifies the application steps that apply to the review of an Animas Valley rezoning.
Figure 66-37: Summary of Animas Valley Rezoning Procedures
III.
Approval criteria.
An amendment to the AVLUP is a matter subject to the board’s legislative discretion. Accordingly, the general approval criteria stated in section 66-16 shall not apply to the review of a proposed rezoning application. Instead, the board shall consider the following specific approval criteria for an Animas Valley rezoning:
A.
The amendment is justified by one (1) of the following factors:
1.
The land subject to the rezoning was previously zoned in error.
2.
Events subsequent to the adoption of the original plan have invalidated the original intent.
3.
The character or conditions of the area have changed so that the rezoning is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan and Animas Valley district plan.
B.
The amendment satisfies all of the following criteria:
1.
The change is in general conformance with the goals, objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan and Animas Valley district plan.
2.
The purpose of the proposed zoning district as stated in chapter 65, compared to the existing zoning district, will better implement applicable comprehensive plan or Animas Valley district plan goals, objectives or policies.
3.
Adequate infrastructure is available to serve new development in the proposed zoning district; or the proposed zoning district would limit demands upon infrastructure more than the existing zone; or reasonable assurances are provided that adequate infrastructure will be made available to serve new development by the time the new development places demands on the facilities.
4.
The types of land uses and density permitted within the proposed zoning district are more suitable to the property when compared to the existing zoning district with respect to identified potential natural hazards such as steep or unstable slopes, avalanche areas, debris fans, and floodplain areas and considering reasonable assurances for mitigation of any such hazards.
5.
The proposed rezoning will not adversely affect the existing or planned land uses on adjacent properties or the surrounding area.
6.
The change will not conflict with any intergovernmental agreement then in effect between the county and any other unit of government.
C.
The change advances the general public health, safety and welfare.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-37, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020