Chapter 79 Nonconformities
Sec. 79-6 Disaster re-build program
I.
Purpose
. Imposition of current regulations may create additional distress and hardship for existing residents and businesses in the county affected by a disaster. The purpose of a disaster re-build program is to:
A.
Provide a process to minimize the impact of displacement from housing and work;
B.
Assist disaster survivors in their rebuilding efforts by offering additional flexibility;
C.
Assist owners of conformities and nonconformities in existence prior to the disaster to rebuild or continue the use in the same manner that such structures and uses have historically existed.
II.
Applicability
. The re-build program applies to conforming and nonconforming structures and/or conforming or nonconforming uses that have been destroyed or damaged in a discrete disaster area as defined or described on a map attached to a resolution, or successive resolutions, adopted by the board following a disaster. Illegally established structures and illegally established uses created prior to the date of the disaster are not eligible to participate in the re-build program. As to eligible structures and uses, in the event of any inconsistency between this section 79-6 and any other section of this code, this section 79-6 shall control. If this section 79-6 is silent as to a standard or requirement, this code shall control.
III.
Duration of the program
. By resolution, the board shall establish the length of time the re-build program will be in effect for a specific disaster. All required application materials for participation in the program must be filed with the CDD prior to the expiration of the re-build program ending date.
IV.
Eligibility and approval process
.  The following eligibility criteria and approval processes shall apply:
A.
Re-building and re-establishing conformities. An owner of a previously conforming structure or previously conforming use destroyed by the disaster may re-build the structure(s) and/or re-establish the use(s) without the necessity of a new land use permit provided the re-build and re-establishment are consistent with the existing land use permit and/or this code. However, unless otherwise exempt under the building code, the owner shall obtain all necessary building permits.
B.
Re-building and re-establishing nonconformities. For the duration of the re-build program, an owner may request a determination from the director that a structure or use is or is not a nonconformity subject to this paragraph. The owner is responsible for providing sufficient evidence to establish the size and date on which the structure was constructed, or the use was commenced.
1.
Rebuilding nonconforming structures. Nonconforming structures destroyed by the disaster may be rebuilt provided the re-build is consistent with the standards of this section, section 81-2, Section Necessary for Immediate Preservation of Public Health and Safety and section 70-3, Sewage Disposal. The owner shall submit a complete building permit application prior to the program ending date. The structure may only be rebuilt to the same degree of nonconformity as existed prior to the damage or destruction unless the director determines the existing site conditions make such location, size or character impractical. Any substantially damaged structure located in a floodplain shall meet the requirements of chapter 78.
2.
Reestablishing a nonconforming use. The timeframe to reestablish a nonconforming use destroyed or affected by a disaster shall be extended to the program ending date.
3.
Setback requirements. Replacement structures shall meet current setback requirements unless the director determines the existing site conditions make such location impractical. The director is authorized to approve a waiver of up to fifty (50) percent of the current setback requirements upon finding all the following conditions have been met or determined to be inapplicable:
a.
There are special circumstances or conditions, such as exceptional topographic conditions, narrowness, shallowness or the shape of the parcel, or other extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition on the parcel, that are peculiar to the land or structure for which the waiver is requested.
b.
The strict interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of the code would cause an unnecessary and undue hardship on the owner or adjacent property.
c.
Granting the waiver will not result in a substantial adverse impact on other property in the vicinity of the subject parcel or structure.
C.
Impact fees. Rebuilding is not anticipated to generate new traffic once construction is complete. Therefore, if county road impact fees are adopted, such fees will not be assessed for established and approved historical structures and uses.
V.
T
emporary emergency residential housing and temporary emergency accessory structures.
A.
Eligibility for temporary construction. For the duration of the re-build program, an owner deemed eligible under this section to participate in the re-build program to repair or replace a permanent structure or re-establish a use may also obtain a permit to construct temporary emergency housing, a temporary emergency accessory structure, or both when one of the following conditions is satisfied:
1.
A building permit has been issued for repair or replacement of the permanent dwelling unit, a permanent accessory structure, or both;
2.
Prior to building permit issuance when the owner has provided an acceptable plan and timetable for rebuilding a permanent dwelling unit, permanent accessory structure, or both. Such plan and timetable shall become an enforceable agreement between the owner and the county. A building permit application for rebuilding a permanent dwelling unit, permanent accessory structure, or both must be submitted prior to the expiration of the re-build program ending date.
B.
Standards applicable to temporary construction.
1.
Temporary emergency housing and temporary emergency accessory structures may remain on the property so long as a valid building permit is in effect under the re-build program pursuant to an acceptable plan, or longer if the director has granted an extension. Within sixty (60) days after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the permanent dwelling unit or permanent accessory structure, the temporary emergency housing or temporary accessory structure shall be removed from the property.
2.
Temporary emergency housing shall be occupied only by the property owner(s) or their designee(s).
3.
Only one (1) temporary emergency housing unit is allowed per parcel unless the owner demonstrates additional units are necessary and the additional units have been approved by the director.
4.
Temporary emergency housing and, where required, temporary emergency structures, shall be connected to an approved OWTS or sewage treatment works.
5.
A building permit is required for a temporary emergency housing unit and a temporary emergency accessory structure, except for recreational vehicles or membrane structures, present on the property for one hundred eighty (180) days or less. A building permit is required for recreational vehicles or membrane structures present on the property for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. At the time of permit, the recreational vehicle or membrane structure must comply with all applicable building, fire, electrical, mechanical and related codes.
6.
The location of the temporary emergency housing and temporary emergency accessory structures shall provide safety from natural hazards. Temporary emergency housing units and temporary emergency accessory structures within a floodplain shall meet the requirements of chapter 78.
7.
Temporary emergency housing and temporary emergency accessory structures shall not be located within a roadway, driveway, drainage, ditch, irrigation canal or other right-of-way and shall be served by existing access.
8.
Temporary emergency housing and temporary emergency accessory structures shall comply with applicable setback requirements unless the director determines that existing site conditions make such location impractical. At a minimum, the setback shall be at least five (5) feet from all property lines.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 79-6, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020