CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-32 Review of historic resources
I.
Purpose
. The purpose of this section is to establish a process that identifies historic resources prior to their demolition, moving, or major alteration. The goal is to provide documentation of historic resources in the county and to encourage applicants to consider the benefits of historic preservation. There is no obligation for an applicant to alter their development proposal based upon this section, rather the process serves as a source of information should a landowner decide to preserve a historic resource on their property.
II.
Applicability.
The review process pertains to historic resources which are structures or landscape features over fifty (50) years of age and possess architectural integrity or cultural significance. This includes buildings that were erected to shelter human activity such as houses, barns, schools, churches, and other structures which include bridges, and historic landscape features such as orchards, ditches and roads. This applies to historic resources listed on the La Plata County Register of Historic Places, the survey of one hundred (100) historic resources completed in 2010, and any other structure or landscape feature that meet the definition of a historic resource. This section does not address prehistoric archaeological sites, since these sites are reviewed under the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979.
III.
Review process.
If the CDD determines a potential historic resource is located on the development site, the following steps may apply:
A.
The applicant shall identify the historic resource in the project narrative and relevant submittal materials. Such materials shall be referred to the County’s Historic Preservation Review Commission during the agency referral period pursuant to subsection 66-11.II.
B.
A member of the HPRC may contact the applicant to schedule a site visit to gather information on the historic resource. The HPRC member may meet on-site to discuss the history and document any available historical information.
C.
Using available property maps, the HPRC member may develop a rendering, floor plan or site plan of the historic resource indicating dimensions/measurements, and building location within the site. The HPRC member may take site photos and photos of the affected structures including all elevations and notable features. The photos shall be recorded on a photo log listing the date, subject, photo orientation, and photo number.
D.
The HPRC member may assemble the property materials into a brief report for county staff within one (1) week following the agency referral period. The HPRC member shall email the report to the CDD and be available for any additional discussion or clarification as necessary.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-32, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020