Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-33 Small purchases
A
small purchase
is any purchase with a
contract
requirement of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less, including software and non-capital computer equipment. The amount of a purchase cannot be divided to qualify as a small purchase.
I.
General rule
. Small purchases may be made on the open market without public notice or competitive quotes when the price paid is objectively consistent with the price that would be paid by a member of the general public. All small purchases must meet the following criteria:
A.
Budget
. Only those purchases that are authorized in an approved
budget
will be procured.
B.
Authorization
. Subject to any approvals required by section 20-27, department heads and
elected officials
are authorized to make small purchases when the amount to be spent is within an approved budget.
C.
Scope of work or specifications
. No written
scope of work
is required.
D.
Solicitation standard
. Each department head or elected official is responsible for defining the standard by which the department or elected official will demonstrate that the method by which the
vendor
selected for a small purchase follows the principles of objective fairness, cost reasonableness and best use of public funds.
1.
Appropriate s
olicitation
standards could include evidence that price comparisons were conducted or evidence of what a member of the general public would pay when purchasing a like good or service, such as an internet price sheet, a catalog price list, or newspaper advertisement.
2.
Each department head or elected official is responsible for ensuring that all purchases are properly documented and signed. Examples of acceptable contract forms for small purchases include: a contractor invoice,
purchase order,
proof of purchase, P-Card statement, inventory list, or vendor contract form.
E.
Payment processing
. No
purchase requisition
or
purchase order number
is required for payment of small purchase contracts of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less. Invoices for payment should be submitted to accounts payable in the finance department.
1.
The procurement division is not involved in processing payments of small purchases; it may, however, monitor such payments and will notify the department or elected official if a payment history suggests that the small purchase criteria no longer apply.
F.
Decentralized documentation and contract management
. The department or elected official is responsible for retaining documentation enough to establish that the price paid was fair and reasonable.
II.
Procurement assistance
. Any department, elected official, or county employee who desires assistance for any county purchase, regardless of type or cost, is encouraged to contact the procurement division.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-33, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021