Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE IV - SPECIFICATIONS AND SCOPES OF WORK
As discussed in article III, all
simplified
,
standard
, and
sole source purchases
begin with written
specifications
or a written
scope of work
(“SoW”). The importance of these documents to the quality of the
procurement process
, the eventual
contract
and, most important, the final result cannot be overstated.
Sec. 20-41 General guidelines
I.
Importance of specifications and scopes of work.
A.
From a contractual standpoint, the
specifications
or
SoW
serves as one of if not the most important
contract
component. It establishes the expectations of the relationship. Further, in most instances, it is attached to and incorporated into the contract as an exhibit and, in such cases, is often the determining factor in resolving disputes over what work is or is not included in the project.
B.
From the county’s perspective, the specifications or SoW serves as the guideline for acquisition planning, selection of the appropriate
solicitation
method and identification of the correct contract terms. From a practical standpoint, the specifications or SoW is required to initiate the county’s internal acquisition planning process, which begins with a
purchase requisition
to which the specifications or SoW must be attached and concludes with the department’s or elected official’s ability to pay a
vendor’s
invoice.
C.
From a potential vendor’s perspective, the specifications or SoW serves as the basis upon which to plan and prepare a
responsive bid
or
proposal
. It communicates the nature and scope of the work to be done so that the responsive bid or proposal can be specifically and appropriately tailored.
II.
Differences between specifications and scopes of work.
A.
Scope of work.
As addressed in 20-42, a SoW is a written description of the result that the county seeks to achieve upon contract completion. A SoW describes “what” needs to be accomplished by the successful vendor as opposed to “how” the successful vendor shall do the work. In very broad terms, a SoW is used in connection with an
invitation for bid
,
request for proposals
or
request for qualifications
.
B.
Specifications
. As addressed in section 20-43, specifications emphasize the functional or performance criteria required to meet the county’s needs, such as specific quantities, qualities, materials, and the like. In very broad terms, specifications are used in connection with an invitation for bids, where contract
award
is determined based on the
lowest responsive and responsible bid
offer
, as discussed in article V.
III.
Maximum practicable competition
. Each specification or SoW shall be prepared and drafted in a manner to ensure maximum practicable competition in satisfying the county’s requirements, to promote overall economy for the purpose intended, and shall not be overly restrictive.
IV.
Preparation
. The department head,
elected official
, or their authorized designee is responsible for preparing the specification or SoW. The procurement division will work with departments and elected official’s offices to ensure each specification or SoW is as thorough and accurate as possible.
A.
Capital projects
. In the case of specifications or a SoW for capital projects, the
contract manager
will collaborate with the applicable department, the general services director and the county attorney to determine whether the specifications or SoW will be prepared internally or by contract with an architect or engineering consultant.
B.
Vendor assistance
. Obtaining vendor assistance to write specifications or SoWs is not common practice and should be avoided when possible because it may inhibit competition. If a vendor is involved in writing one of these documents, the vendor should be paid for the service and is generally prohibited from submitting a bid or proposal in response to the solicitation; provided that the finance director may allow the vendor to submit a bid or proposal if it is in the best interest of the county and is not otherwise prohibited by other applicable state or federal law. If an exception is made and the vendor is allowed to bid, its role in preparing the specifications shall be disclosed to other vendors as part of the solicitation documents.
C.
Funding source requirements
. Where purchases are funded from sources other than the county’s general fund, such as by state or federal
grants
, specific bidding or performance standards may be required of any sub-contractor or sub-recipient of such funds. As such, the department head or elected official shall provide any funding
agreements
, with the specifications or SoW, to the procurement division to ensure appropriate incorporation of such requirements into the procurement process.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-41, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021