CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-24 Location and extent review
I.
Applicability.
The location and extent review is for the evaluation of public uses and
utilities
, whether publicly or privately owned, for general conformance with the
comprehensive plan
and to provide the
PC
, JPC, other body identified by an IGA, and the public, with the opportunity to comment on such uses as provided by C.R.S. § 30-28-110. Location and extent review is intended to be a review process, not a permitting process, for uses as outlined below.
A.
Unless excluded under paragraph 66-24.I.B., the following uses shall be subject to location and extent review:
1.
Public roads and parks;
2.
Public ways, grounds, and spaces;
3.
Public buildings, structures and utilities, whether publicly or privately owned.
B.
Exclusions from location and extent review. The following uses are excluded from location and extent review:
1.
Uses located on unincorporated land that is an enclave within a municipality;
2.
Upgrades to an existing use, including repairing and/or replacing old or outdated equipment, that are required by state, federal, or local regulation, provided that, in the director's discretion, the upgrades do not materially expand levels of service beyond design capacity and that the upgrades do not materially alter the existing location of the existing use;
3.
Any use or subdivision that has been reviewed and approved by the county as part of a separate land use process; and
4.
Any use that is solely necessary to serve development not requiring a land use permit under section 66-3.
II.
Procedures
.
Figure 66-24: Summary of Location and Extent Review Procedures,
below identifies the application steps that apply to the location and extent review process.
III.
Approval criteria.
The specific approval criteria for location and extent review is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan pursuant to paragraph 66-16.II.E. of the general approval criteria for land use permits. All other general approval criteria listed in subsection 66-16.II. shall not apply to a location and extent review.
IV.
Submittal requirements.
The director shall provide the applicant with forms pursuant to subsection 66-10.II., which shall include the specific information required to process a location and extent application. The application for a location and extent review shall include the following:
A.
The name and address of the applicant;
B.
The name, address and telephone number of the primary contact person;
C.
The parcel number, and the name and address of the property owner(s) where the use is proposed;
D.
Project narrative that provides a general description of the full scope of the project;
E.
Map prepared at an easily readable scale showing:
1.
Boundary, or alignment for linear projects, of the proposed use;
2.
Relationship of the proposed use to surrounding topographic and cultural features such as roads, streams and existing structures;
3.
Proposed buildings and infrastructure related to the project;
F.
Any other information that the applicant deems beneficial to the public review of the proposed use.
V.
Appeal and notification of decision.
The PC’s, JPC's or other appropriate body’s decision may be appealed pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-110(1)(c). In the event the PC’s, JPC's or other appropriate body’s decision is overruled by the body or official having jurisdiction as provided in C.R.S. § 30-28-110(1)(c), the applicant shall notify the director in writing of such final decision, and any conditions of approval related thereto, no later than fourteen (14) business days after the decision is made.
(
There are no resolutions associated with this section.
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020