Chapter 10 ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Predatory
animal
control
committee, § 2-566 et seq.;
undesirable plant
and
rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Dumping
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612
Division 3. Offenses and Enforcement
Sec. 10-32.  Issuance of Citations or Summons and Complaint
I.
Probable Cause.
Whenever a violation of this article is committed in an
animal
control
officer’s presence or, if not committed in their presence, when an
animal control officer
has probable cause to believe the violation has been committed, the animal control officer may issue a citation or a summons and complaint to the violator, pursuant to the provisions of this section
10-32
, stating the nature of the violation with sufficient particularity to give notice of said charges to the violator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation of section
10-30
(V) regarding
nuisance barking
must be witnessed by a neighbor/complainant who signs a written statement attesting to the nuisance barking and verifying the allegations of the complaint.
II.
Citation/Penalty Assessment.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-15-102(1) and 30-15-402(1), as amended, any designated animal control officer or any arresting law enforcement officer is authorized and directed to utilize the penalty assessment notice/procedure provided for in C.R.S. § 16-2-201, as amended, for any violation of this article not involving
bodily injury
to a person,
cruelty to animals
,
vicious animals
or dangerous animals, and/or a
habitual offender
.  Any violation of this article involving bodily injury to a person, cruelty to animals, vicious animals or dangerous animals, and/or a habitual offender will result in issuance of a summons and complaint requiring the alleged offender to appear before a specified county court to answer the charge(s) without the option of paying a fine in lieu of appearing.
A.
Penalty Assessment Notice.
A penalty assessment notice issued pursuant to this section
10-32
(II) shall be a summons and complaint and shall contain the following information: identification of the alleged offender; specification of the offense(s) charged, including a citation of the statute(s) or ordinance section(s) alleged to have been violated; specification of the applicable fine(s); a brief statement or description of the offense(s) charged, including the date and approximate location thereof; and a requirement that the alleged offender pay the fine
or
appear before a specified county court to answer the charge(s) at a specified date, time and place. A duplicate copy shall be sent to the clerk of the county court of the Sixth Judicial District.
B.
Payment of Fine/Trial.
If the person given a penalty assessment notice chooses to acknowledge his guilt, he may pay the specified fine in person or by mail at the place and within the time specified in the notice. If he chooses not to acknowledge his guilt, he shall appear in court as required in the notice. Upon trial, if the alleged offender is found guilty, the fine imposed shall be no less than the amount specified in the notice for the offense of which he was found guilty (see section
10-33
(I) below) and no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) per offense, together with customary court costs that may be assessed against them and any restitution ordered by the court to be paid.  Upon conviction, the offender may also face imprisonment in county jail for not more than 90 days, as determined by the court.
III.
Summons and Complaint.
When any violation of this article involves bodily injury to a person, cruelty to animals, vicious animals or dangerous animals, a habitual offender, or when the penalty assessment procedure described in section
10-32
(II) is not otherwise used, a summons and complaint shall be issued requiring the alleged offender to appear before a specified county court to answer the charge(s) without the option of paying a fine in lieu of appearing.
A.
Contents/Filing with Court.
The summons and complaint shall contain the following information: identification of the alleged offender; specification of the offense(s) charged, including a citation of the statute(s) or code section(s) alleged to have been violated; a brief statement or description of the offense(s) charged, including the date and approximate location thereof; and a requirement that the alleged offender appear before a specified county court to answer the charge(s) at a specified date, time and place. A copy of a summons and complaint shall be filed immediately with the county court before which appearance is required, and a second copy shall be given to the district attorney or deputy district attorney for the county.
B.
Mandatory Court Appearance
.  A summons and complaint requiring the alleged offender to appear before a specified county court without the option of paying a fine in lieu of appearing shall be issued to anyone who is:
1.
Charged with cruelty to animals; or
2.
Charged with owning or harboring a vicious animal or a dangerous animal; or
3.
A habitual offender or alleged habitual offender charged with a third or subsequent violation of any provision of this article within eighteen (18) months of the date of the first conviction for a violation.
C.
Punishment for Offenses.
Upon conviction, violations of this article not involving bodily injury to a person shall be punishable as set forth in section
10-33
(I) below.  Violations of this article involving bodily injury to a person shall be punishable as set forth in section
10-33
(II) below.
Ord. No. 2024-03, §  04/09/2024
Effective on: 5/12/2024