Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE III. - VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec. 94-34. - Departmental review.
Upon the receipt of an
application
or request, the planning department shall review the application for completeness. If determined to be incomplete, the planning department shall notify the applicant of such deficiencies. The applicant shall then have not less than 30, nor more than 90, days to complete the application.
Written notice, together with sufficient information concerning completed applications, shall be referred to the following
county
departments for comment:
County manager;
County attorney;
Road and bridge department;
Assessor;
Treasurer;
Sheriff;
Clerk and recorder; and
Any other department that the planning department determines may be affected by the application.
Departments shall have 14 days in which to review, comment and report to the planning department whether:
The property is, or is likely to be, necessary or desirable for any public purpose within the reasonably foreseeable future.
Any term, condition, reservation or dedication of any easement or interest in the property necessary or desirable for public purposes.
Any other comment relevant to the property.
Concurrent with staff review, notice and request for comment shall also be sent by first class mail to all public utilities, special districts, known neighborhood associations, towns, cities within one-half mile, and to any person that has requested, in writing, notice of the sale, vacation or abandonment.
The comments of the county departments shall be forwarded to the county manager, or his designee, and reviewed on the next available staff meeting agenda. The recommendation of the county manager may then be forwarded to the planning commission for their consideration. The county manager shall have the discretion to expedite these procedures.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.3.d; Res. No. 2004-20, § 1, 6-28-2004; Res. No. 2008-30, § 1, 11-12-2008)
Effective on: 8/28/2012