Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
Article IV. SECURE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Sec. 26-260 Revocation or Suspension of Licensure and/or Vehicle Permits
I.
Temporary suspension.
Without prior notice to the licensee and upon determination that a violation that poses immediate threat to the public health, safety and welfare has occurr
ed, the
board
may
temporarily suspend any license or permit. Such temporary suspension shall be effective upon delivery of written notice to the licensed secure transportation service by the board. Temporary suspension shall be valid for
not more than
thirty (30) days or until such reasonable time that a final decision by the board
is made
concerning suspension or revocation, whichever period is longer. Any written notice of temporary suspension shall also provide notice of the time, date, and place of a hearing before the board to consider the suspension or revocation of the license. Except upon written consent of the licensee, the hearing shall be held not more than ten (10) business days following the effective date of the temporary suspension.
II.
Suspension for definite period of license
.  Following notice to the licensee and a public hearing at which the licensee shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard, the board may suspend any license or permit for all or any portion of the remainder of the license term. At the end of such period the licensee whose license was suspended may apply for a new license or permit as an original application. Any suspension shall require a finding by the board that based on a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing, a violation of these regulations has occurred.
III.
Permanent revocation.
Following notice to the licensee and a public hearing at which the licensee shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard, the board may permanently revoke any license or permit.  Any suspension shall require a finding by the board that based on a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing, two or more violations of these regulations has occurred.
IV.
Issuance of a temporary suspension shall not be a prerequisite to conducting a hearing to consider the suspension or revocation of a license or permit.
V.
Hearings
.
All suspension or revocation hearings shall be open to the public and shall be conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open Meetings Act (C.R.S. § 24-6-401,
et seq.
). The board shall be authorized to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to require the attendance of witnesses and the production of papers, books, and records necessary to the determination of any issue at any hearing.
VI.
Following receipt of a written notice of suspension or revocation, the licensee shall surrender and deliver its license and all permits to the board within forty-eight (48) hours.
VII.
The board shall notify the complainant in writing of any revocation or suspension of the secure transportation service license or permits resulting from the complaint.
(
Res. No.
2022-30
, § 26-260, 12/06/2022
)
Effective on: 1/1/2023