Chapter 81 General Provisions
Sec. 81-3 Transitional rules
I.
Existing nonconforming uses or structures
. All uses or structures legally established on the effective date that do not comply with this code shall be considered pre-existing nonconforming uses or structures and shall be permitted to continue to the extent provided in the provisions of chapter 79.
II.
Legal lots of record.
No further land use permit shall be required for the sale or conveyance of any legal lot of record existing on the effective date. However, any new use, change in use or the extension or alteration of the scope of an existing use on any legal lot of record existing on the effective date shall be in conformance with all provisions of this code, including chapter 79.
III.
Compliance with permit conditions
. Unless subject to the exceptions in C.R.S. § 24-68-105, all development approved and permitted prior to the effective date shall be completed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the land use permit approval, including all terms, conditions, and regulations governing the issuance of the land use permit and according to the land use code provisions in effect at vesting. Terms, conditions and governing regulations of previously approved permits shall be enforced pursuant to chapter 80.
IV.
Outstanding violations
. Any violation of the previous county land use code will continue to be a violation under this code and be subject to penalties and enforcement under chapter 80, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies with the provisions of this code.
V.
Projects in process.
Except as expressly provided in this code, the provisions of this code shall not apply to the review and approval of any project which is in process on the effective date but where the decision-making body has not taken final action. A project is considered in process if the application has been deemed complete as of the effective date by the director in accordance with previous code section 82-92.
Applicants that have received conceptual development plan or preliminary subdivision plat approval prior to the effective date shall:
A.
Within one (1) year of the date of preliminary approval, submit a complete application for final approval of at least one phase of the project. The application for final plat approval shall comply with the code in effect at the time preliminary approval was granted;
B.
After approval of a final plat for only one (1) phase or portion of the property subject to the previously approved conceptual development plan or preliminary subdivision plat, submit a complete application for each subsequent phase of the project within one (1) year of the county’s approval of the previous final subdivision plat.
If an applicant fails to submit a complete application for final approval according to the time period specified herein, the preliminary approval shall be deemed void and all development on the real property shall be subject to this code.
VI.
Modifications to previously approved plats, plans, and permits
. Proposed modifications to any approved final plat, plan, or land use permit shall be in conformance with this code. An applicant may seek a variance under section 66-27 in the case of exceptional practical difficulties or undue hardship arising from the strict application of the provisions of this code to a specific property in a previously approved project.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 81-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020