Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 2: Road Impact Fees
Sec. 44-31 Interpretation, conflict, severability.
I.
Liberal construction.
The provisions of this division shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its purposes which are hereby found and declared to be in furtherance of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience.
II.
Conflict.
To the extent of any conflict between other provisions found in other chapters of the county code and this division, the provisions of this division shall be deemed to be controlling with respect to the imposition, calculation, and collection of the impact fee; provided, however, that unless expressly provided herein, this division is not intended to amend or repeal any existing county ordinance or regulation, which shall continue in full force and effect after the passage, approval and publication of this division.
III.
Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this division is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this division shall be deemed to be a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this division nor impair or nullify the remainder of this division which shall continue in full force and effect. If the application of any provision of this division to any person, applicant or
new development
is declared, for any reason, to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the intent of the board is that such decision shall be limited to that particular circumstance immediately involved in the controversy, action or proceeding in which such decision of invalidity was rendered. Such decision shall not necessarily affect, impair or nullify this division as a whole or the application of any provision of this division to any other person, applicant or new development.
Res. No.
2024-31
, ยง  08/27/2024
Effective on: 8/27/2024