Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
Article IV. SECURE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Sec. 26-210 Issuance of Licenses and Vehicle Permits
I.
License and permit(s) required.
Beginning January 1, 2023, and except as provided in Subsection II herein, no secure transportation service, public or private, shall transport a person experiencing a behavioral health crisis from any point within t
he
county
to
any point within or outside the county unless that secure transportation service holds a valid secure transportation service license and secure transportation vehicle permit(s) issued by the county in which the secure transportation service is based.  In addition to the secure transportation service license required for the secure transportation service, each secure transportation vehicle used by the secure transportation service must have a valid secure transportation vehicle permit.
II.
Exemptions from licensure or permit requirements.
The entities listed in 6 CCR 1011-4 Part 3.2, are exempt from county licensure or permit requirements.
III.
General requirements for licensure.
Secure transportation services are required to:
A.
Comply with all applicable laws, regulations, rules, and ordinance to operate a secure transportation service in Colorado; and
B.
Submit completed application forms supplied by the county, including all required fees, documentation, and attachments; and
C.
Obtain a secure transportation service license from the county in which the secure transportation provider is based prior to beginning operations and upon change of ownership of a secure transportation service; and
D.
Obtain secure transportation vehicle permit(s) for each secure transportation vehicle prior to using such vehicle for the secure transportation service and upon change of ownership of such vehicle.
IV.
Licensure Period.
A.
The licensure period for all secure transportation services shall be three (3) years;
B.
Each secure transportation vehicle permit shall be valid for one (1) year.
V.
Transfer of License.
Secure transportation service license or vehicle permit(s) may not be assigned, sold, or otherwise transferred.
VI.
Delegation to deputy county manager.
A.
Licensure renewals
:  Based upon the review and recommendations of the county licensing coordinator and the County Attorney’s Office, the deputy county manager is authorized to administratively review and approve applications for renewals of secure transportation vehicle permits where, after reasonable investigation, there is no information obtained or otherwise known by the licensing coordinator or deputy county manager that could support denial of the application under applicable law and all of the following circumstances are found to exist:
1.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid all applicable fees; and
2.
To the knowledge of the deputy county manager, the applicant has complied with all county regulations and resolutions; and
3.
There have been no complaints or allegations of violations of the secure transportation service licensing regulations by the secure transportation service within the state during the most recent twelve (12) months.
B.
Temporary secure transportation services:
In the event no licensed services are available, and no transportation services that are exempt from these licensing requirements are available, the deputy county manager may issue a temporary license to a licensed secure transportation service that is not licensed in the county to provide temporary secure transportation services to a specific individual experiencing a behavioral health crisis.
C.
Refer to
board
.
Notwithstanding any authority delegated to the deputy count
y manager under this section, the deputy county manager may, in his or her discretion, refer any licensing or permitting decision to the board.  The hearing before the board shall be noticed as required by law.
D.
Reports.
The local licensing coordinator shall report to the board in a timely manner all actions taken by the deputy county manager under this section.
X.
Approval and denial of licensure.
The board shall review the application, the applicant’s record, and the applicant’s equipment, as well as the applicant’s training and operating procedures.  The board may additionally consider any other information it considers informative, including information about applicant’s candor in its application and documentation, complaint history, and information received from other jurisdictions in which the applicant is licensed or otherwise performing secure transportation services.  Following notice to the applicant and a public hearing at which the applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard, the board may deny an application for a secure transportation service or secure transportation vehicle permit(s) upon a finding that issuance of such license or vehicle permit(s) is not in the best interests of the public health, safety, and welfare.
(
Res. No.
2022-30
, § 26-210, 12/06/2022
)
Effective on: 1/1/2023