Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-4 Bed and breakfast inns
I.
Standards specific to bed and breakfast inns.
A.
Owner on premises. The owner or manager shall live on the premises when and where the bed and breakfast inn is in operation.
B.
Provides at least one (1) meal per day at no charge.
C.
There are at least two (2), but not more than thirteen (13), guest bedrooms available for transient guests.
D.
Maintain residential appearance. Structures associated with the bed and breakfast inn shall have and maintain a general residential appearance.
E.
On-site parking. A minimum of one (1) parking space shall be provided for each guest bedroom, plus spaces required for the principal residence in accordance with section 70-18. If four (4) or more off-street parking spaces are provided, visual screening (fence, wall, landscaping, or combination thereof) from adjacent residential uses shall be required.
F.
Signage. One (1) on-premises sign shall be allowed, with a size limit of five (5) square feet on roads with a speed limit of thirty (30) miles per hour or less, and eight (8) feet on roads with a speed limit greater than thirty (30) miles per hour. Internally illuminated signs are not allowed. Externally illuminated signs shall meet the standards of section 70-20, as applicable.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-4, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020