Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE IV. EXCAVATIONS
DIVISION 2. PERMIT
Sec. 42-142. Standards for issuance.
Permits
shall
be issued in accordance with the following standards:
Road closure. If any excavation or trench crosses a
public highway
, the permit shall specify that only one-half of the
roadway
shall be closed to travel at any one time. If the
construction
, installation or repair of the
utility
lines requires that the entire road be closed to travel, the permit application shall so state. The permit to close the entire road will be granted only if there is no feasible alternative. In such event, the time during which the entire road width shall be closed to travel will be held to an absolute minimum, and the permit fee charged will be double the normal fee to cover the cost of notification of all
emergency
and law enforcement authorities regarding such road closure. Such notification shall be the responsibility of
county
.
Plans and cost estimates; bond. Before the county shall issue a permit to any
person
for construction, installation or repair of any utility line within a public highway
right-of-way
, such person shall submit complete reconstruction and rehabilitation plans and cost estimates (see Exhibit B to Resolution No. 1982-127, which is on file in the clerk and recorder's office) and shall obtain a license and permit bond for the benefit of the county in the minimum amount of $5,000.00, or the full cost of reconstruction and rehabilitation of the right-of-way and any highway located therein, whichever is greater. The full cost of reconstruction and rehabilitation of the right-of-way will be determined after the contractor has submitted construction cost estimates to the county
engineer
for review and approval. Such license and permit bond shall be in force and effect at the time of issuance of the permit and shall provide that the work covered by the permit is warranted for a period of one year after the completion thereof in accordance with the provisions of subsection (4) of this section. More than one permit can be issued against such bond, provided that the face amount of the bond shall be equal to or greater than the total cost of reconstruction and rehabilitation of the right-of-way and any highway located therein for all such permits issued.
Security in lieu of permit and bond. In lieu of the license and permit bond required by subsection (2) of this section, the
applicant
may
provide a letter of credit, certificate of deposit or other form of security satisfactory in form and amount to county. Such security must be approved by the
board of county commissioners
and must otherwise conform to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section as to amount, warranty and time of coverage.
Warranty of work. By applying for and obtaining a permit, the
permittee
warrants the work and all labors and materials used therein for a period of one year from the completion of work and guarantees that no further repairs or maintenance shall be required at the worksite due to any defect or omission in the work.
Utility lines. All utility lines installed within a public highway right-of-way shall be so constructed and maintained so as not to obstruct, hinder or endanger persons and
vehicles
using the highway. Such utility lines also shall be installed so as not to obstruct or hinder road maintenance activities. Either a road and bridge
director
or his authorized
agent
shall have the authority to designate acceptable locations for such utilities.
Scope of permit. Permits issued pursuant to this article shall govern only work performed within a public highway right-of-way and are in no way permits to enter onto private property adjacent to such rights-of-way, nor to alter or disturb any
facilities
or installations existing within the right-of-way which may have been installed and are owned by other parties.
Indemnification of county. By applying for and receiving a permit to construct, install or repair utility lines within a public highway right-of-way, the permittee agrees that it shall indemnify and save harmless the county from all loss, cost and expense arising out of any liability, or claim of liability for injury or damages to persons or property sustained or claimed to have been sustained by anyone whomsoever, by reason of the construction, installation or repair of the utility line by the permittee, or by act or omission of a permittee or any of its officers, agents or employees, and the permittee shall be responsible for and shall pay for any and all damages to the property of the county.
Insurance requirements. Before a permit shall be issued, the applicant shall present to the county a certified copy of an insurance policy, or a certificate evidencing the existence thereof, including public liability and property damage, written by a company authorized to do business in the state, in the minimum amount of $150,000.00 per person and $400,000.00 per occurrence. Each such policy or certificate shall contain a valid provision or endorsement that the policy may not be cancelled, terminated, changed or modified, without giving ten days' written notice to the county. The insurance coverage described in this subsection constitutes a minimum requirement and shall in no way be deemed to limit or lessen the liability of the permittee.
(Res. No. 1982-127, § 3, 12-6-1982)
Effective on: 12/6/1982