CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-3 Land use development not requiring a land use permit (building permits may be required)
I.
No land use permit required.
No land use permit shall be required for any of the following developments unless specifically required by other sections of this code:
A.
One single family residence on a vacant legal lot of record;
B.
Placement of a manufactured home on a vacant legal lot of record;
C.
AgPlus uses pursuant to subsection 66-3.II. below;
D.
Agriculture as defined in Chapter 62;
E.
Barns, garages, and sheds intended solely for noncommercial use;
F.
Decks, fences, retaining walls, sidewalks;
G.
Reserved;
H.
Seismic, stratigraphic test, core or other exploratory holes drilled for the purpose of obtaining geological information only;
I.
Change of use to a land use which does not require a permit;
J.
Second or third dwelling units on a lot pursuant to subsection 73-3.II.;
K.
Accessory uses pursuant to subsection 73-2.II.;
L.
Day care home;
M.
The deposit of clean, natural, fill with minimal organic content, without payment of any compensation or consideration to the owner, lessor, or other lawful occupant of the property receiving the deposit;
N.
Participating in a disaster re-build program pursuant to section 79-6;
O.
Installation, operation and maintenance of emergency recovery measures to relieve imminent hazards to life or property created by a natural disaster administered by NRCS or any other federally approved program;
P.
Micro solar.
II.
AgPlus uses not requiring a land use permit.
A.
Purpose. This subsection 66-3.II. and subsection 66-5.II. below address a unique set of uses by right and types of administrative land use permits specifically related to agriculture. Historically, agriculture has been the predominant land use in the unincorporated areas of La Plata County. Agriculture has defined the area’s character and agricultural enterprises and activities are an important sector of the county’s economy. While rural living is a life-style choice for many residents, some generate a considerable portion, if not all of their livelihood from agriculture. An important component of agriculture is the production of commodities produced and sold on the farm or sold from the farm to be processed elsewhere. Key policy goals of several district plans and this code are to encourage, promote and foster agricultural enterprises and activities in the county. It is for these reasons and others that uses referred to as AgPlus are addressed in this chapter. In this context “plus” is a qualitative rather than a quantitative measure, the objective being the preservation of agricultural lands by focusing on the use to which a parcel may be put plus any “value added” activities that support the agricultural use or the ability of the property owner to sustain the land for agricultural purposes.
B.
Applicability. This subsection applies to uses by right which the county has determined are customarily incidental or directly related to a pre-existing agricultural activity conducted on a single agricultural parcel. The second type, addressed in subsection 66-5.II., are AgPlus uses that require administrative review because such uses are secondary and clearly subordinate to the pre-existing agricultural activity conducted on the agricultural parcel but support the sustainability of the agricultural use. To qualify for either type of AgPlus use, the proposed use must occur on a single agricultural parcel meeting the following criteria:
1.
The parcel was classified by the county assessor as agricultural in the previous two (2) years and is presently used for agricultural purposes;
2.
Except for accessory rural occupations, home occupations, direct market business / community supported agriculture, or farm stands, the parcel is a minimum of fifteen (15) acres;
3.
The parcel subject to the application shall not be in violation of this code or the building code.
C.
Uses by right. Uses in this paragraph shall be considered uses by right not requiring a land use permit:
1.
Agricultural research facility;
2.
Accessory rural occupation or home occupation;
3.
Equine or llama activities;
4.
Direct market business/community supported agriculture; and
5.
Farm machinery repair.
III.
Minimum requirements.
Development not requiring a county land use permit as specified in this code, shall meet all applicable established minimum requirements, including, but not limited to the following:
A.
Building permits required as applicable;
B.
Compliance with all applicable site development standards, such as setbacks and parking, and all use provisions specified in this code;
C.
The director may require compliance with section 81-2 Sections Necessary for Immediate Preservation of Public Health and Safety when circumstances warrant.
IV.
Building permit referral.
Building permit applications shall be referred to the CDD for review of compliance with the standards of this code. CDD review shall include but is not limited to: compliance with the land use permit and division of land requirements of Chapters 66 and 67, development on a legal lot of record, setbacks within section 70-6 and Chapter 90, and the height requirements of sections 65-6 and 70-6. Building permit applications shall include a site plan and any other documentation that contains all information needed to demonstrate compliance with applicable standards. Referral to the CDD is not intended to preclude or conflict with the applicability of the building code or other sections of the code.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020