Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-2 Utilities and services
I.
Minimum required services.
This section, along with chapter 74, sets forth the minimum infrastructure standards to be satisfied by a proposed project. Except for temporary uses and other uses specifically exempted elsewhere in this code, all developments shall be required to demonstrate that adequate utilities and services, such as: water, wastewater treatment, electrical, telephone, internet, cable TV and fuel supplies, are available to serve the development.
II.
Utility installation and easements.
Utilities shall be placed within a county right-of-way or legally established easement and shall be free from conflicting legal encumbrances, avoid unnecessary excavations and be reasonably free from physical obstructions. Multiple use of a given easement is encouraged to minimize the number of easements burdening the real property. Where utility lines are to be provided to a development, these facilities shall be installed to the property line of each individual lot within the development. Electrical utilities may be installed to a central location.
A.
To the maximum extent practicable, utility lines shall be installed below ground. Except for residential lots larger than ten (10) acres, all utility lines serving new development shall be installed to meet minimum depth standards established by any applicable utility, ditch company or county/state road standards, but no less than two (2) feet minimum within a county road right-of-way. The applicable decision-making body may also allow utility lines to be placed above ground in areas where it is determined that existing utility infrastructure, safety, environmental degradation, destruction of wetlands, adverse impacts to cultural resources, or similar adverse impacts render it infeasible to place the utilities underground.
B.
Minimum clearance. A minimum ground clearance of eighteen (18) feet shall be provided where there are overhead utility lines that cross public roads and streets. The clearance shall be measured at the lowest point where the line crosses the traveled portion of the street.
C.
Notification and inspection. The applicant shall notify affected ditch companies prior to installation of utilities and shall obtain a permit from the public works director prior to the commencement of any utility installation projects in a county right-of-way. At the discretion of the public works director an inspection of the installation may be conducted to evaluate, among other things, densities, moisture content, resurfacing, and cleanup activities. An advance request for inspection shall be made in instances where the acceptability of materials used for backfill is questioned.
III.
Solid waste disposal.
Applicants shall demonstrate that adequate solid waste disposal sites and facilities will be provided within the development and the method in which solid waste will be collected from the development. Where common trash facilities are provided, these shall be screened, as specified in section 70-17, and shall be enough in number, size and design to prevent overflowing and access by animals.
IV.
Fire protection
. Except for administrative land use permits, applicants shall submit a fire response plan to the appropriate fire protection district and shall comply with the adopted fire code, as prescribed by the fire chief of the district. The fire response plan shall provide fire equipment access to each building or potential building on the proposed site, and shall indicate the available fire flow in gallons per minute, the amount of water storage available, any on-site firefighting equipment to be provided, and the response time anticipated during summer and winter months. The fire response plan shall meet the approval of the local fire chief.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 70-2, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020