Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 1: Fire Impact Fee for Durango Fire Protection District
Sec. 44-9 Refunds
I.
Eligibility for refund.
Refunds may be requested by an applicant who paid the impact fee in the following circumstances:
A.
The building permit upon which the impact fee was imposed, calculated and collected expired or was revoked prior to the commencement of construction or use and a new building permit will be needed to develop the property;
B.
The district failed to expend the impact fees paid by the applicant in compliance with the timing or other applicable requirements of section
44-8
;
C.
The applicant amends its building permit to reduce the number of dwelling units or the gross square footage of non-residential floor space after the building permit is issued and after the impact fee is paid; provided, that the impact fee has not already been appropriated and contractually committed for expenditure by the District.
D.
The new development obtains a certificate of occupancy from the community development department for one (1) or more dwelling units deemed to be low- or moderate-income housing or affordable employee housing units under this division 1, as evidenced through participation in one of the following programs:
1.
The county’s revolving loan fund;
2.
The City of Durango’s Fair Share Program;
3.
Habitat for Humanity’s home construction and sale program;
4.
The USDA Rural Development Mutual Self-Help Housing Program;
5.
The federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program;
6.
The Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly program;
7.
The HUD Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program;
8.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Department of Local Affairs, Division of Local Housing;
9.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Middle-Income Housing Authority;
10.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Housing Finance Authority (CHFA) to provide affordable housing, including but not limited to affordable housing tax credits and the Middle-Income Access program (MIAP);
11.
Any existing county workforce housing program agreement;
12.
Any affordable or attainable housing program which La Plata HomesFund, the Regional Housing Alliance of La Plata County, Housing Solutions for the Southwest, or their respective successors in interest, certifies that such program has adequate procedures that limit the sales and rental costs of homes and verify the incomes of the occupants.
II.
Procedure for making refunds.
All requests for refunds shall be made by the then-current owner of the property on a refund application form provided by the community development. The applicant shall be required to submit the following information: a title report reflecting that the applicant is the current owner of the property; evidence that an impact fee was paid (i.e., a receipt or comparable evidence); and evidence that one (1) of the circumstances set forth in section 44-9(I) has occurred. The community development department shall review the refund application form and the documentary evidence submitted and, within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed refund application form, make a determination of whether a refund is due.  The determination of the community development department shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the determination. Refunds may be authorized by direct payment to the applicant or by other appropriate means. In the event fees become refundable due to the district’s failure to expend impact fees in compliance with the timing or other applicable requirements of section 44-8, the district shall cause a notice of the availability of such refund to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county and such notice shall be prominent and published in a section of the newspaper other than the section reserved for legal advertisements or notices.
III.
Timing of requests for refunds
. Applications for refunds shall be considered only if made within the time frames established herein.
Cause of Refund
Time Limit for Request of Refund
(1)
Expiration or revocation of building permit
(1)
Within sixty (60) days following expiration or revocation
(2)
Failure of the district to timely expend impact fee funds
(2)
Within one (1) year following the expiration of the time limit established in section 44-8
(3)
Reduction in development
(3)
Within sixty (60) days after amendment of building permit
(4)
Participation in affordable housing program
(4)
Within sixty (60) days after issuance of the certificate of occupancy
IV.
Interest on refunds.
In the event impact fee funds are refunded because of the failure of the district to expend impact fee funds within the time limit established pursuant to section 44-8, such refund shall include interest. Refunds under any other circumstances shall include interest only if the funds were paid to the county more than one (1) year before the refund is requested. Any interest payable shall be at a rate equivalent to the net average annual yield received by the county or district during the period such funds were held.
(
Res. No.
2022-19
, § 44-8, 10/11/2022
)
Effective on: 10/11/2022