Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-7 Transfer or change of ownership
Table 7-7: Typical Review Process for Applications for
Transfer or Change of Ownership
(for illustrative purposes)
Pre-Application Meeting with Staff (Mandatory)
↓
Submit Complete Application to Staff
↓
Background Checks Completed by Law Enforcement
↓
Staff Review and Recommendation to Local Licensing Authority
↓
Notice (posting and applicant notice) – 10-day requirement
↓
Local Licensing Authority Hearing on Application and Finding on Good Moral Character
↓                                                                                                                  ↓
Approval or Conditional Approval                                                                    Denial
↓                                                                                                                 ↓                                    Satisfaction of Conditions of Approval
Right to Appeal (C.R.C.P.  106)
↓
Issuance of License to New Entity (if applicable)
(for duration of current term of issued license)
)  Isuu
I
I.
Notice or approval of transfer or change of ownership or day-to-day management.
A.
Approval required
.  The
license
holder and proposed transferee shall apply to and receive approval from the
local licensing authority
prior to the transfer or change of ownership of a license when required by this section. An application for a transfer or change of ownership must be submitted when a licensee proposes to:
1.
Transfer its license to a different entity.
2.
Sell or otherwise transfer the licensed entity to a new
owner
.
3.
When the licensed entity proposes to admit a new owner who will have
day-to-day management
authority over the marijuana business.
At least one controlling beneficial owner of each entity, as applicable, shall sign all applications. However, other owners with day-to-day management authority may be required to sign authorizations, requests to release information and other forms required by licensing authority staff.
If a business operator is applying for approval to transfer or change ownership, as set forth in this section, the applicant shall be required, upon request of the local licensing authority or its staff, to provide information about the effect such transfer would have, if any, on current contracts with other licensed marijuana businesses within the county.
B.
Notice required
.
1.
If any owner or operator with day-to-day management authority ceases to manage or otherwise be associated with the marijuana business, notice will be provided to staff within ten (10) days.
2.
Any redistribution of ownership interests in a licensed marijuana business among its existing owners shall be reported to staff at the time change of ownership forms (or similar other forms) are submitted to the
MED
. A copy of the applications or forms submitted to the state shall be provided to staff.
3.
In the event of the death, disqualification, divestment or other termination of an owner’s interest in a licensed marijuana business or the MED’s revocation of such individual’s owner’s license in the business, the licensed entity shall submit information to the local licensing authority’s staff detailing and evidencing the planned redistribution of ownership among the entity’s remaining owners. If day-to-day management authority of the marijuana business will reside in owners whose qualifications have not previously been reviewed by the local licensing authority, then an application for transfer or change of ownership shall be submitted.
II.
Application requirements.
An application shall be submitted to the local licensing authority’s staff at least thirty (30) days prior to any requested transfer or change on current forms provided by the state, together with additional forms required by the
county
. Applications shall be materially complete and accurate. The complete state application for a transfer or change of ownership must also be provided to the local licensing authority’s staff. Staff may refuse to accept an incomplete application. Applications shall include the following documents:
A.
Proof of right to possess premises.
When a licensee proposes to transfer its license to a different entity or to sell or otherwise transfer the licensed entity to new owners (as opposed to when it proposes to admit new members to an entity that already possesses the licensed premises or place of business), applications must include documents that demonstrate proof of possession of the licensed premises or place of business. These documents may include a deed, lease, or contract that governs the terms and conditions of the occupancy of the premises for the period of the license.
B.
Purchase and sale agreement.
If applicable, a copy of an executed document that evidences the proposed transfer and sale of the business or ownership interests in the business.
C.
Fees.
All applicable fees.
D.
Fingerprints; qualifications.
Sets of fingerprints and personal history information for each of the applicant’s owners with day-to-day management authority for the marijuana business. For an entity, fingerprints and personal history information are required for the entity’s owners who will have day-to-day management authority for the marijuana business.
E.
Proof of citizenship, residency and suitability
.  Evidence demonstrating:
1.
Lawful presence or citizenship, and Colorado residency of each individual who is an owner of a marijuana business who has day-to-day management authority over such marijuana business.
2.
A finding of suitability from the MED for each individual who is an owner of a marijuana business who has day-to-day management authority over a marijuana business. This requirement will be waived if the applicant can provide evidence satisfactory to staff that an individual was exempt from obtaining such finding of suitability from the MED.
3.
Findings of suitability provided to the local licensing authority within one (1) year from the date of issuance by the MED will be considered valid, unless otherwise revoked by the MED. Findings of suitability older than one (1) year will not be accepted.
F.
Corporate good standing for the licensee.
A certificate of good standing issued by the Colorado Secretary of State’s office and, as applicable, the equivalent document issued by the agency or entity that registers or licenses foreign entities for any applicant that is a foreign entity.
G.
Registered agent.
Any entity shall provide the name and contact information of its registered agent to licensing staff.
H.
Business operator agreement and name of designated management personnel.
Any agreement(s) between a marijuana business operator and other licensed marijuana business must be provided to licensing staff, together with the name(s) of the natural person(s) that is an officer, agent or employees of the business operator who have been designated as management personnel for the other business’s licensed premises.
I.
Material safety data sheets.
Upon request, the applicant shall provide copies of MSDS or SDS sheets for all
chemicals
and chemical mixtures, or a list of the same.
J.
Additional information.
Any additional information the local licensing authority, or its staff, may require to determine whether an application for transfer or change of ownership should be approved, including but not limited to proof of compliance with the
marijuana code
, the
marijuana rules
, or any regulations under this article. The additional information must be provided to the local licensing authority’s staff no later than seven (7) days after the request is made to the applicant, unless otherwise specified by the local licensing authority or its staff. Failure to provide the requested evidence or information by the deadline may postpone the processing and review of the application and may be grounds for denial of the application.
K.
Waiver.
The local licensing authority may waive, at its sole discretion, any of the above submission requirements.
III.
Qualifications.
The local licensing authority shall consider all pertinent matters affecting the qualifications of the proposed transferee in the same manner as applications for new licenses, including but not limited to review of the good moral character of any owner with day-to-day management authority over a marijuana business. An application may be denied based on a finding of good cause.
IV.
Hearing.
A.
A determination on an application for transfer or change of ownership shall take place after a duly noticed public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall satisfy the requirements of C.R.S. § 44-10-312, as amended. Specifically, notice of hearing shall be:
1.
Provided to the applicant at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing; and
2.
Posted, by the applicant, on the licensed premises or permitted place of business for a period of ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
B.
The public hearing will not be scheduled or noticed until the results of the criminal history records checks are received by staff.
V.
Effect of pending desciplinary/enforcement action
. If, at the time after the application is submitted, the licensee or its licensed business operator, if any, is involved in an investigation or enforcement or disciplinary action conducted by either the local licensing authority, its staff, or the MED for a violation of these regulations, the marijuana code or the marijuana rules, the following may apply:
A.
The transfer or change of ownership application may be delayed or denied until the investigation or enforcement action is resolved; or
B.
The proposed transferee may be responsible for the action of the licensee, and subject to discipline based upon the same, if the local licensing authority approves the application.
VI.
Change in corporate structure.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a licensed marijuana business that is an entity desires to convert from one (1) form of entity into any other form of entity (ex. conversion of corporation to a limited liability company), pursuant to C.R.S. § 7-90-201, as amended, or other applicable law, without any other change of ownership, the entity must notify licensing staff within thirty (30) days after the change is completed and provide staff with documents evidencing the same.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, §  06/20/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, §  12/08/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, §  03/07/2017
)
(
Res. No.
2017-08
, §  03/07/2017; Res. No. 2019-18, §  06/25/2019; Res. No.
2020-23
, §  05/26/2020; Res. No. 2021-11, §  04/13/2021
)
Effective on: 5/16/2021