Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE IV. - TRANSFERS OF 06CW99 WATER RIGHT INCREMENTS
Sec. 94-45. - Application criteria.
Use of
increments
. Increments shall correspond to actual uses either existing on a parcel or proposed. If a parcel contains multiple and/or differing uses, then the parcel may qualify for multiple and/or differing increments. The planning
director
shall approve
applications
based on the following:
Residential increment
. Only one full residential increment shall be allowed per legal residential dwelling unit. If an application is for more than one residential increment on a single parcel, the
water user
may be required to provide
land use permit
or project numbers to demonstrate that the proposed or existing additional dwelling units or the proposed subdivision complies with subpart B of this Code.
Residential lawn and garden increment
. Only one full residential lawn and garden increment shall be allowed per residential increment or legal residential dwelling unit. If an application is for more than one residential lawn and garden increment on a single parcel, the water user may be required to provide a land use permit or project numbers to demonstrate that the proposed or existing additional dwelling units, or the proposed subdivision complies with subpart B of this Code.
Limited commercial increment
. Up to one limited commercial increment shall be allowed per current commercial Class II land use permit except that, pursuant to subsection
94-50
(I), the
board
may approve a special exception allowing for multiple limited commercial increments per current Class II land use permit.
Accessory uses. Limited commercial increments shall not be allowed for Class I accessory uses or accessory uses conducted without a land use permit pursuant to section 82-5 of this Code, except that, pursuant to subsection
94-50
(I), the board of county commissioners may approve a special exception allowing for up to one limited commercial increment per accessory use.
[Reserved.]
Limited commercial lawn and garden increment
. Up to one limited commercial lawn and garden increment shall be allowed per limited commercial increment or current commercial Class II land use permit except that, pursuant to subsection
94-50
(I), the board may approve a special exception allowing for multiple limited commercial lawn and garden increments per limited commercial increment or current commercial Class II land use permit.
Agricultural irrigation increment
. Up to one agricultural irrigation increment shall be allowed per one acre dedicated exclusively to crop production.
Domestic animal increment
. Only one full domestic animal increment shall be allowed per three acres except that the qualifying acreage does not need to be dedicated to animal husbandry.
Land use, building, and well permits. Obtaining a land use, building, or well permit shall not be required as a prerequisite to a water user applying for an increment. However, if development or a structure associated with the use of an increment requires either a new or amended land use, building, or well permit, the planning director may conditionally approve the application subject to the water user obtaining the new or amended land use, building, or well permit and the water user shall obtain the new or amended land use, building, or well permit prior to the planning director executing the water use agreement.
Denied applications. Applications shall be denied if the planning director determines any of the following:
The application is not consistent with the County Code or policies, state law, or the 06CW99 Court Decree.
The application will result in the return flow being downstream of the depletion point for the watershed from which the increment is intended to be diverted.
The application is for an increment that will be used outside of the watershed from which the increment is intended to be diverted.
The application relies on water hauling.
The application is for a use that would qualify for an exempt well.
The application is for a residential or limited commercial increment that will be used within the service area of a water service provider unless that water service provider states in writing that it cannot or will not provide water service.
The application is for an increment that the planning director reasonably determines will violate the anti-speculation doctrine pursuant to applicable case law and/or C.R.S. § 37-92-103(3), or the can and will doctrine pursuant to applicable case law and/or C.R.S. § 37-92-305(9)(b).
(Res. No. 2012-35, § 1(Exh. A), 8-28-2012; Res. No. 2014-24, § 1(Exh. A), 6-10-2014, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017