Chapter 68 Planned Unit Developments
Sec. 68-4 Sketch plan
I.
Purpose
. An applicant proposing to develop a PUD shall obtain approval for a sketch plan pursuant to the procedures and standards of this chapter. The purpose of the sketch plan review is for the applicant, the county and the public to evaluate and discuss the basic concepts for development of the proposed PUD and to consider whether the development of the real property as a PUD will result in a significant improvement over its development as a conventional subdivision. Where appropriate, the sketch plan process may also examine alternative approaches to development of the property. Typically, a proposal will evolve during sketch plan review.
II.
Sketch plan review and considerations
. At sketch plan, the decision-making body shall determine whether the proposed PUD substantially complies with this code and is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan. In addition to addressing applicable standards, the applicant and the county shall reach general agreement on matters such as, but not limited to, the following:
A.
The types of use;
B.
Applicable site development standards, including dimensional standards, or variations thereof;
C.
The general locations intended for development and the areas planned to remain undeveloped, including open space;
D.
The general plan for phasing of the development and any infrastructure or other improvements;
E.
The general alignment for access;
F.
The provision of an adequate water supply and whether the water supply and sewage disposal will be provided through on-site water and wastewater treatment systems or through connection to public systems;
G.
Compatibility with the natural environment and the way natural hazards will not be increased as a result of the development;
H.
Compatibility with the existing uses of adjacent properties and other lands that may be significantly impacted.
III.
Sketch plan outcome.
The outcome of sketch plan review should be a finding on the project’s compatibility as well as an identification of issues and concerns the applicant must address for the project to be considered ripe for review by the decision-making body.
IV.
Sketch plan submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicant shall submit the following documents and materials:
A.
If the applicant is not the sole owner of all real property proposed to be included within the PUD, written consent from every owner of real property proposed to be included within the PUD, including identification of the applicant as an agent on behalf of each owner;
B.
The reasons why the PUD procedure is more desirable than the conventional subdivision or land use process;
C.
Proposed land uses; commercial, industrial and multi-family building locations; residential densities and commercial square footage;
D.
Proposed vehicle circulation pattern;
E.
Proposed pedestrian circulation pattern;
F.
Proposed open space;
G.
Narrative explanation of proposed land use restrictions;
H.
Any or all the following requirements, as determined by the director, based on the complexity of the proposal:
1.
Proposed schedule of development phasing;
2.
Statement of estimated demands on county services;
3.
Statement as to the impact of the proposed PUD on county school systems;
4.
Conceptual site plans and conceptual architectural plans;
5.
Proposed method of fire protection including information demonstrating a legal, adequate water supply for fire-fighting purposes.
V.
Sketch plan review and action
. The submission of an application for a PUD sketch plan, determination of compliance, staff and agency review and notice and scheduling of the hearing for the application shall comply with the procedures in section 66-11. The process for review of the PUD sketch plan application by the planning commission shall be as set forth in section 66-19. Except where the purposes set forth in section 68-1 may be furthered, the sketch plan shall be reviewed for general consistency with the approval criteria stated in section 66-16, but not for detailed compliance with development standards referenced in such criteria. The county may confer with the applicant on changes deemed advisable and the kind and extent of changes. No PUD sketch plan may be approved without the written consent of all owners whose real property is included within the PUD.
VI.
Effect of approval of sketch plan for PUD
.
A.
Limitation on approval. Approval of a PUD sketch plan shall authorize the applicant to submit to the CDD an application for a PUD preliminary plan. It shall not constitute final approval for the PUD. PUD sketch plan approval vests no development or vested rights.
B.
Expiration of approval. Approval of the sketch plan shall be null and void and automatically revoked two (2) years after the date of the board’s approval of the sketch plan, unless, prior to such expiration, an application for a preliminary plan for the PUD is submitted to the CDD and deemed complete by the director.
C.
Extension of sketch plan approval. One (1) extension of time up to one (1) year may be approved by the director upon written request when deemed necessary to resolve review comments or due to unforeseen circumstances. The owner shall submit a written request for extension to the CDD no later than thirty (30) days prior to the date the sketch plan is set to expire. The director’s approval of the extension shall be set forth in writing and shall clearly state the new sketch plan expiration date.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 68-4, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020