Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-22 Design criteria for common open space
I.
Applicability.
Except for clustered rural development, this section shall apply to common open space required to be provided within the boundaries of a proposed development to achieve compatibility or provide an amenity that directly benefits the residents, users or employees of the new development.
II.
Standards
. If common open space is contemplated in a development, it shall comply with the following standards:
A.
Structures permitted in common open space. Structures requiring a building permit are prohibited, unless authorized through the development review process.
B.
Prohibited uses. Building envelopes, parking areas, cut or fill slopes or other permanently disturbed areas that are part of the development are prohibited, except for outdoor recreational uses and underground utilities. Any commercial, industrial or development activity not related to agricultural uses, outdoor recreational uses, utility, and wildlife habitat improvement projects are prohibited.
C.
Dedication. Required common open space shall be dedicated by recorded instrument such as a deed, plat or separate instrument. Open space can be either a separate tract, or an easement or designated area on one or more platted lots.
D.
Continuing use and maintenance. All common open space shall continue to conform to its intended use, as specified in the land use permit. To ensure that all the common open space identified for the project will be used as common open space, restrictions and/or covenants shall be placed in each deed, plat or separate instrument to ensure their maintenance and to prohibit the division of any common open space. If common open space is proposed to be maintained through an association, district or nonprofit corporation, such organization shall manage all common open space and recreational facilities and shall provide for access and responsibility for the maintenance, administration and operation of the common open space.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 70-22, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020