CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-10 Pre-application process
I.
Purpose.
The purpose of the pre-application process is to provide an opportunity for the applicant and the county to discuss the development proposal in order to:
A.
Determine the required application(s) and the timing of multiple application submittals including whether they may be processed concurrently or must be processed sequentially;
B.
Provide the applicant with application materials and inform the applicant of submittal requirements and an approximate time frame for the application review process;
C.
Discuss compliance with the code’s land use, density, and development standards, and attempt to identify potentially significant issues regarding compliance early in the process;
D.
Refer the applicant to other departments or agencies to discuss significant issues prior to the pre-application meeting and application submittal;
E.
Discuss the extent to which surrounding landowners are to be notified of the proposal and the need for any neighborhood meetings.
II.
Process and requirements.
A.
Request for a pre-application meeting and preliminary project feasibility.  To request a pre-application meeting, the applicant shall submit a preliminary site plan, a written description of the proposal, and all completed forms or information as required by the director.  Materials submitted for review as part of the pre-application process are not an “application” for development.  The director shall review the information provided by the applicant in order to determine the appropriate type of application process and to identify potential development issues.  Prior to scheduling a pre-application meeting, the director may refer the applicant to other departments or agencies, surrounding landowners or other parties to explore identified potential issues and to obtain additional information which may assist the applicant in determining the preliminary feasibility of the proposal.
B.
Alternative pre-application process.  For director determinations, administrative land use permits and other types of administrative applications, the director may establish alternatives to the procedures outlined in this section for the applicant to obtain a list of application requirements and the appropriate forms in order to expedite the process.
C.
Pre-application meeting. Unless otherwise provided in this code, a pre-application meeting is required for the specific land use permit and development applications shown in Table 66-15.  For all application types, a conference through telephone, video, email or other electronic means may serve the function of a meeting at the discretion of the director.  The pre-application meeting shall occur prior to the filing of the formal application.  The director shall provide the applicant:
1.
A checklist of submittal items that will be necessary for each type of application being sought;
2.
The forms with the specific information that is required to process each type of application being sought;
3.
The county’s applicable application fee(s).
D.
Attendance. At a minimum, the applicant and the director shall participate in the pre-application meeting.  The director may invite other county staff or agency representatives to participate in the pre-application meeting.
E.
Effect of the pre-application meeting. The director and other staff opinions presented during the pre-application process are informational only and do not represent a commitment on behalf of the county regarding the acceptability of the development proposal.  Comments made by staff should be considered to be preliminary until after the application is submitted and surrounding landowners and referral agencies have had an opportunity to comment.
F.
Timely application submittal required. If a development application is not submitted within six (6) months of a pre-application meeting, the applicant shall schedule and attend another pre-application meeting before submitting an application.  The director may waive another pre-application meeting if determined that it is not necessary for adequate project review or if there has been no substantial change in the proposal.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-10, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020