Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE III. - VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec. 94-35. - Board of county commissioners proceedings.
Planning commission recommendation. The review of the proposed vacation of rights-of-way or sale of real property by the planning commission shall be in the form of a recommendation.
Public hearing. A public hearing before the
board of county commissioners
shall be held. The public hearing in the case of a requested vacation of rights-of-way shall be for the purpose of determining whether the right-of-way shall be vacated and the terms, conditions and reservations thereof. The public hearing in the event of a proposed sale of real property shall be for the purpose of determining whether the property shall be put up for bid and the terms, conditions and reservations thereof.
Action.
Vacation proceedings. If the board of county commissioners approve the vacation of any right-of-way, it shall direct that a resolution be prepared to that effect for its consideration. Vacated rights-of-way shall vest according to C.R.S. § 43-2-301 et seq. upon recordation of the vacation resolution.
Sale proceedings. If the board of county commissioners approves placing real property up for bid, it shall direct that the bid procedures as set forth in this subsection (III)(B) be followed:
Treasurer's deeds. If the real property proposed for sale is held by the
county
pursuant to a treasurer's deed, the bid procedures contained in C.R.S. § 39-11-143 shall be applicable.
Other real property. If the real property proposed for sale is held by the county, other than pursuant to the treasurer's deed, a bid notice shall be posted in a public place at the county courthouse not less than 30 days prior to the date of sale, and such notice shall be advertised in two issues of a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Such notice shall appear one week apart and within 30 days as provided in this subsection (III)(B)2. Such notice shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids. In addition thereto, the board of county commissioners shall reserve the right to impose additional bid terms and conditions, and to award the bid to the bidder which shall present the bid which is, in the sole discretion of the board of county commissioners, the best bid considering all of the terms, conditions, evidence and public interest.
Bids opened publicly. Bids shall be publicly opened at the time and place specified in the bid notice. Bids received shall be presented to the board of county commissioners for their consideration and direction.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.4)
Effective on: 10/25/2016