Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE IV. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution establishing positions, classifying positions, setting salaries of county officers and employees or any personnel regulations or any ordinance or resolution regarding pension or retirement plans, funds or benefits, saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(13); review of county employees' driving records, § 2-102.
State Law reference—
County officers, C.R.S. § 30-10-101 et seq.
DIVISION 2. COUNTY MANAGER
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
County
manager, C.R.S. § 30-11-107(1)(n).
Sec. 2-708. Powers and duties.
The
county
manager
shall
be responsible to the
board of county commissioners
for the proper administration of all county affairs placed in his charge, and to that end, he shall have the power and duty to:
Enforce the ordinances and resolutions of the county in consultation and cooperation with the county attorney;
Execute the policies and directives of the board of county commissioners;
Appoint, suspend, transfer and remove all county employees, except as otherwise provided in section 2-709, subject to the personnel regulations of the county adopted by the board of county commissioners;
Make appointments of county personnel on the basis of executive and administrative ability and of the training and experience of such appointees in the work which they are to perform;
Prepare a proposed budget annually and submit it to the board of county commissioners, and be responsible for the administration of the budget after its adoption;
Prepare and submit to the board of county commissioners as of the end of the fiscal year, a complete report on finances and administrative activities of the county for the preceding year, and upon request of the board of county commissioners, make written or verbal reports at any time concerning the affairs of the county under his supervision;
Keep the board of county commissioners advised of the financial condition and future needs of the county and make such recommendations to the board of county commissioners for adoption as he
may
deem necessary or expedient;
Exercise supervision and
control
over all
departments
, except as otherwise provided in section 2-709(b), and recommend to the board of county commissioners any proposal he thinks advisable to establish, consolidate or abolish administrative departments;
Plan, coordinate and provide overall direction of the work of all county departments, except as otherwise provided in section 2-709(II);
Approve all personnel, purchasing and general fiscal
actions
subject to state law and applicable county policies;
Monitor the administration of all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the county in any contract and upon knowledge of any
violation
thereof, report the same to the board of county commissioners and the county attorney for such action and proceedings as may be necessary to enforce the same;
Attend board of county commissioners meetings as necessary and participate in discussions with the board of county commissioners in an advisory capacity;
Be responsible for the system of accounting and auditing for the county, show that legal provisions have been complied with and reflect the financial condition and financial operation of the county;
Be responsible for engineering, architectural, maintenance,
construction
and other services required by the county; and
Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of county commissioners not inconsistent with the laws of the state.
That the board of county commissioners hereby delegates to the county manager of the county the authority to execute Durango/La Plata County Airport procurement contracts, grant applications and contracts, aviation-related and non-aviation related lease agreements, the employment contract of the
director
of aviation, and other similar documents on behalf of the county without such contracts, applications and/or agreements being presented to the board of county commissioners for approval, provided that such contracts, applications and/or agreements have been reviewed and approved by the Durango/La Plata County Airport commission and by legal counsel as appropriate prior to execution by the county manager.
The county manager shall report such contracts, applications and/or agreements so executed to the board of county commissioners on a monthly basis.
The county manager shall not have the authority to execute any documents that require signature of the governing body pursuant to federal or state law, procedure or regulation.
(Res. No. 1991-46, § 2(A)—(O), 10-16-1991; Res. No. 2002-59, §§ 1—3, 12-9-2002)
Effective on: 12/9/2002