CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-16 General approval criteria for land use permits
I.
Applicability.
Unless otherwise specified,
county
review bodies
and
decision-making bodies
shall review all
land use permit
and
development
applications, including without limitation requests for
director determinations
, submitted pursuant to this
code
for compliance with the general approval criteria stated in this section. The application may also be subject to additional approval criteria and standards specific to the type of application. In case of conflict between a specific approval criterion stated and the general approval criteria stated in this section, the specific approval criterion shall apply.
II.
General approval criteria.
A.
Compliance with this code’s purposes and use and development standards. The proposed development shall comply with this code’s purposes provision in section 62-3 and with all applicable standards of this code.
B.
Consistency with review agency comments.
C.
Consistent with prior approvals. The proposal shall be consistent with the terms and conditions of any precedent plan or plat approval, as applicable, including without limitation an approved phasing plan for development and installation of public improvements and amenities. For major land use permits and subdivisions, if the board finds the preliminary plan or plat is not materially consistent with the sketch plan or additional findings are required, the proposed development application may be remanded by the board to the planning commission for review and a recommendation at a public meeting pursuant to section 66-12. In the event of remand, the proceedings before the board shall be stayed until the planning commission makes a final decision on the matters subject to remand and the director shall determine which procedural steps in section 66-21 shall be reapplied to the application. The board may remand with directions to the planning commission and the planning commission’s review shall be consistent with those directions.
D.
No significant unmitigated adverse impacts on surrounding property or the natural environment. The proposed development does not cause significant unmitigated adverse impacts on surrounding properties or the natural environment. Consideration of adverse impacts shall include, but not be limited to, potential interference with irrigation ditch flows, stock drives and other agricultural operations.
E.
Conformance with adopted plans. Subject to chapter 64, the proposed development shall be in general conformance with the county’s adopted plans including, but not limited to the comprehensive plan. The decision-making body shall weigh competing plan goals, objectives, and policies, and may approve an application that provides a public benefit even if the development is contrary to some of the goals, objectives, and policies of the adopted plans.
F.
Uses and density in general conformance with district plan. Subject to chapter 64, whether and to what extent the proposed land use(s) and intensity of development are in general conformance with an adopted district plan and the land use classifications described therein, except as otherwise altered as part of a planned unit development as provided in chapter 68.
G.
Rational phasing plan. As applicable, the proposed phasing plan for development of the project is rational in terms of available infrastructure capacity. In addition, each phase of the development shall contain all of the required streets, utilities, landscaping, open space, and other improvements that are necessary and desirable for the residents and users of that phase and shall not be dependent upon subsequent phases for those improvements.
H.
Consistent with intergovernmental agreements. The development is consistent with applicable intergovernmental agreements between the county and other entities.
I.
Compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-16, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020