Chapter 63 Administration and Review of Roles
Sec. 63-2 La Plata County planning commission
I.
Established.
There is hereby established a county
planning commission
pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-103.
II.
Membership, qualifications and terms.
The members of the PC shall be appointed by the board and shall consist of five (5) regular members and up to three (3) alternate members, collectively referred to in this section as "members." Alternate members may only formally participate in PC activities and proceedings and may only exercise the powers delegated to members of the PC set forth herein if the alternate member is filling a vacancy pursuant to the terms of this section.
A.
To the maximum extent possible, the PC shall represent a broad range of interests in the community and shall be drawn from different geographical locations within the county.
B.
Qualifications and terms of office.
1.
Each member of the PC shall be a resident of the county.
2.
Each member should have a demonstrated interest and experience in either land use planning, architecture, landscaping, engineering, construction, real estate, law, agriculture or public policy.
3.
Each member shall have knowledge of the community.
4.
Each member shall demonstrate a dedication to public service.
5.
Each member shall commit to being properly prepared for all meetings, shall attend at least seventy-five (75) percent of all meetings at which attendance is required, and shall have access to the technology necessary to review materials.
6.
The term of office of each member shall be three (3) years, except that any member may serve until a successor has been appointed. No member shall serve more than three (3) consecutive terms as a regular or alternate member. A former member may re-apply to serve one (1) year after expiration of the term limit.
C.
Compensation. Members of the PC shall receive no compensation for their services, except they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred, subject to applicable provisions of the state statutes and procedures for reimbursement of expenses approved by the board.
D.
Records of proceedings. The PC shall keep a record of its proceedings, which record shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the policies and procedures of the county.
E.
Removal and filling of vacancies.
1.
Members of the PC may be removed for nonperformance of duty or misconduct, as determined by the board. If a vacancy occurs on the PC, the board shall appoint a member to the PC to fill the unexpired term.
2.
Alternate members of the PC are hereby authorized by the board to perform the duties of regular members who are temporarily unable to act due to absence, illness, interest in any matter before the PC, or any other cause. The services of alternate members shall be alternated, where practicable, and, to achieve this goal, the director shall contact alternate members to achieve a five (5) member PC, whenever possible.
F.
Officers and bylaws. The PC shall elect a chair from its members, whose term shall be for one (1) year. The chair must be a regular member. The PC may create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary. The PC shall be empowered to adopt and amend bylaws governing its procedures as it may consider necessary or advisable. Such bylaws shall be consistent with this code and with the provisions of C.R.S. § 30-28-101
et seq
.
G.
Quorum. Except as may be otherwise provided by statute, three (3) acting members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the PC. If a quorum is present, the decision of one (1) or more members of the PC to abstain from voting thereon shall not be deemed to constitute less than a quorum for the transaction of business. Action of the PC shall be by majority vote of those voting, except as may be otherwise required by statute. Abstention shall not be counted as votes for the purpose of determining a majority. A tie vote constitutes a denial of the proposed action by the PC.
III.
General authority.
The PC shall make recommendations to the board concerning planning matters and decisions. Conduct of the PC shall be according to their adopted rules of procedure.
IV.
Specific powers and duties.
The PC shall have those administrative and review roles as shown in Table 66-15 and as otherwise provided in this code. In addition, the PC shall have the following powers and duties in administering this code:
A.
Adoption and revision of comprehensive (master) plan. It shall be the duty of the PC to make, adopt, and revise, as may be necessary, an advisory
comprehensive plan
, including
district plans
, for the physical development of the unincorporated territory of the county. No such plan or revision thereto shall become effective until adopted by resolution by not less than a majority of the regular membership of the PC. Such plan shall then be certified to the board and to the planning commissions of all municipalities within the county.
B.
Development, proposal, and recommendation of subdivision regulations. It shall be the duty of the PC to develop, propose and recommend subdivision regulations and revisions thereto, as may be necessary, to the board. The board shall consider such recommendations and any revisions thereto for adoption, modification or rejection pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-133.
C.
Development, proposal, and recommendation of zoning regulations. It shall be the duty of the PC to develop, propose and recommend zoning regulations and revisions thereto, as may be necessary, to the board. The board shall consider such recommendations and any revisions thereto for adoption, modification or rejection pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-116.
D.
Development, proposal, and recommendation of other land use and environmental regulations. It shall be the duty of the PC to develop, propose and recommend land use and environmental regulations and revisions thereto to the board, other than zoning regulations. The board shall consider such regulations for adoption, modification or rejection.
E.
Cooperative planning activities. It shall be the duty of the PC to consult and cooperate with the planning commissions of incorporated municipalities within the county and with land use authorities in other counties, and to perform such joint planning functions as may, from time to time, be prescribed by directive of the board or by intergovernmental agreement.
F.
Designation of members to perform certain joint planning activities. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section regarding membership, the PC shall designate from among the PC members a sufficient number to perform the review functions of the joint planning commission pursuant to section 63-3 below, or such other cooperative planning commission as may be established pursuant to section 64-5.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 63-2, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020