Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, AMENDMENTS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
Every
procurement
action results in a legal
contract
between the county and the supplier, regardless of purchase type or amount. This article VI discusses the appropriate contracts and terms to be used.
Sec. 20-62   Performance and payment bonds
A separate
performance bond
and a labor and materials
payment bond
, or other legally acceptable surety shall be required for all
construction
, labor and public improvement
contracts
in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Each bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred (100) percent of the contract price. Bonds may be required on contracts of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less if the finance director determines it to be in the
best interest of the county
.
I.
Delivery and satisfaction
. A contractor shall deliver these bonds to the
contract manager
within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of award, or at the same time the contract is executed, whichever is earlier. If the contractor fails to deliver the required bonds, the contractor’s
bid
or contract may be rejected or terminated for default.
II.
Bond form
. The bonds must be submitted on bond forms executed by a surety company authorized to do business in the State of Colorado.
III.
Waiver
. Bonds may be waived, and cashier’s checks accepted and deposited into an escrow account with the county for a designated period, if the terms of the surety alternative are acceptable to both parties of the contract. A percentage of the total amount of the contract designed to cover all costs associated with a performance breach may be an acceptable condition of an alternate surety.
IV.
Changes to contract
. If the price of any construction, labor, or public improvement contract initially valued at fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less should reach a value of more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), through change orders or otherwise, then the contractor shall be required to provide performance and bonds in the amount of one hundred (100) percent of the new contract price, together with any additional insurance, as determined by the contract manager or finance director.
V.
Additional bonding
. If, at any time during the term of a contract, a surety on the contractor’s bond or bonds becomes irresponsible, the county shall have the right to require additional and sufficient sureties, which the contractor shall furnish within ten (10) calendar days after written notice to do so. Such surety bond shall cover the entire contract amount regardless of changes in the total contract amount.
VI.
Copies of bonds
. Any person may request and obtain from the county a copy of a bond upon payment of the cost of reproduction of the bond and postage, if any, in accordance with the county’s Open Records Policy.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-62, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021