Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 8. LA PLATA COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Emergency
medical services, § 26-66 et seq.
Sec. 2-277. Meetings.
I.
Regular meetings. The
emergency
medical services council should meet monthly on a regular date to be determined by the membership, and meetings
shall
be held at such times and places as the emergency medical services council
may
decide.
II.
Special meetings. Any meeting of the emergency medical services council held during a given month in
addition
to the regular meetings provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be considered a special meeting. Special meetings may be called for any purpose at any time by the chairperson, vice-chairperson or secretary/treasurer.
III.
Notice. For all regular meetings the secretary/treasurer shall see the minutes and an agenda are sent to each member at least 24 hours prior to the scheduled meeting date and time. For all special meetings of the emergency medical services council, written notice shall be given by fax, e-mail or U.S. post to all emergency medical services councilmembers at least five days prior to the meeting date. The notice shall specify time, date and place of the meeting and shall contain the agenda of the meeting and such other information as may be appropriate.
IV.
Quorum. No
action
may be taken at any meeting of the emergency medical services council unless a quorum has been established. A quorum shall consist of five of the seated members of the emergency medical services council, one of which shall include the chairperson or vice-chairperson.
V.
Voting. Each emergency medical services councilmember present at a meeting shall have one vote including the executive officers. In the case of a tie, the motion shall be restated and further discussion ensue until the matter can be decided. No member shall exercise more than one vote. There shall be no proxy voting and no absentee ballots at the meeting of the emergency medical services council. The following members shall not vote: any paid employee or contract labor from the emergency medical services council and the regional emergency medical services coordinator.
VI.
Order of business. Except as otherwise provided by these bylaws or by the policy adopted by the emergency medical services council, all meetings shall
use
Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised as a guideline. Except as the emergency medical services council shall otherwise specify, the usual order of business shall be:
A.
Roll call;
B.
Additions to the agenda;
C.
Reading of minutes of previous meeting;
D.
Reports;
E.
Old business;
F.
New business; and
G.
Adjournment.
VII.
Minutes. The emergency medical services council shall cause written minutes to be kept of each meeting which shall include a record of the results of votes on all motions. Minutes of the previous meeting shall be distributed to all members and shall be made available to the general public upon request.
(Res. No. 1997-59, 10-10-1997)
Effective on: 10/10/1997