Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE IV. - TRANSFERS OF 06CW99 WATER RIGHT INCREMENTS
Sec. 94-52. - Termination; right of entry.
Water use agreements
. In the event a default under the terms of a water use agreement is believed to exist, the
county
shall give written notice thereof via certified mail to the
water user
setting a date for a hearing before the
board of county commissioners
to determine the existence of the default. The hearing shall be no less than ten
business days
after sending notice to the water user. Within 20 business days after such hearing, the board of county commissioners shall determine whether or not a default exists, and, if so, shall specify a reasonable time within which the water user shall be required to satisfactorily cure the default. If the water user fails to satisfactorily cure the default within the time specified by the board of county commissioners, the county shall terminate the water use agreement.
Deeds. In the event that a deeded
increment
is believed to be at risk of being abandoned, the county shall give written notice thereof via certified mail to the water user setting a date for a hearing before the board of county commissioners. The hearing shall be no less than ten business days after sending notice to the water user. Within 20 business days after such hearing, the board of county commissioners may reasonably determine by resolution if the deeded increment is at risk of being abandoned. If such a resolution is adopted, the county shall immediately file an action to quiet title and retake the portion of an increment pursuant to the deed's stated conditions. Any increment appearing on any abandonment list prepared by a division engineering pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 37-92-401 and 37-92-402 shall create a rebuttable presumption that the increment is at risk of being abandoned.
(Res. No. 2012-35, § 1(Exh. A), 8-28-2012)
Effective on: 8/28/2012