Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE VII  - DETERMINATIONS, PROTESTS, AND CLAIMS
Sec. 20-76 Bid protests
A protest is a grievance that is filed with the finance director prior to issuance of a notice to proceed to a
contractor
and consists of written objections by an interested party to a
solicitation
, or a cancellation of a solicitation, for
bids
or
proposals
or award of the same. Reasons for protest may include, by way of example only, the preparation of
specifications
, insufficient time to respond, restrictive bonding requirements, excessive or restrictive qualification requirements, and evaluation criteria.
I.
Resolution
. It is the policy of the procurement division to resolve all controversies by mutual
agreement
at the earliest opportunity. Before a protest is filed, therefore, it is recommended that the aggrieved party contact the
contract manager
.
II.
Right to protest
. Any
bidder
, offeror,
vendor
, or
contractor
who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may protest to the finance director.
III.
Effect of protest
. The filing of a protest will not be allowed to unnecessarily delay the
procurement process
. The finance director, with the approval of the county attorney, shall determine whether the protest requires postponement or cancellation of award.
IV.
Filing.
All protests shall be submitted in writing to the finance director and must be received within two (2) business days from the day the aggrieved party knew or should have known of the facts giving rise to the protest, but in no case will a protest be accepted after a notice to proceed is issued. Protests received after the such deadline will not be formally addressed.
V.
Written protest
. All protests shall be in writing and shall:
A.
Identify the
IFB
,
RFP
or other solicitation number and title;
B.
State the date of the protest;
C.
State the basis of the protest and the specific facts supporting the aggrieved party’s position; and
D.
Contain the signature of the aggrieved party.
VI.
Response
. The finance director will review the protest with the affected department head or
elected official
and other appropriate staff, including the county attorney, and respond in writing to the aggrieved party within seven (7) business days of receipt of the protest. The finance director or county attorney are the only persons authorized to respond to the protest. The response shall state the reasons for any decision reached.
VII.
Reconsideration
. When an aggrieved party does not agree with the final decision of the finance director, the party may, within two (2) business days of delivery of the decision, submit a written request for reconsideration stating the reasons, with specificity, for disagreement with the finance director’s decision. An original and one (1) copy of the request for reconsideration shall be sent to the
BOCC
in care
of the county attorney. The county attorney will promptly present the protest or claim to the BOCC for reconsideration. The request for reconsideration shall be heard by the BOCC within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the request, at the next regular or special business meeting. The procedural manner of the hearing before the BOCC shall be prescribed by the county attorney with sufficient notice to the protestant.
VIII.
Exhaustion of remedies
. Exhaustion of the administrative remedies as provided in this section shall be a mandatory condition precedent to the filing of a timely Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 106 action.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-76, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021