Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-31 Exemptions to competitive solicitation requirements based on type of good or service
By their very nature, as well as by statute, some purchases of
goods
and
services
do not require public competition and publication requirements of public procurement in order to select an appropriate provider. In such instances, the public competition principles of openness, fairness and reasonableness of cost are achieved through other objectively reasonable methods.
I.
General requirements.
Unless otherwise noted, the purchase or acquisition of the items and services listed in this section are not exempt from the requirement that the terms of the purchase must be documented in an appropriate contract and executed by the BOCC or appropriate authorized delegate, as set forth in Fiscal Management Policy II4, as amended. Further, review of any proposed contract for goods or services identified in this section must be reviewed by the county attorney’s office prior to execution, in accordance with the general parameters set forth in section 20-26, when:
A.
Any provisions in a standard contract form prepared by the County Attorney’s Office is proposed to be substantively amended, modified or deleted.
B.
Any irregular or non-standard purchases are proposed.
C.
Any contract in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) is prepared by a vendor.
D.
Any contract is in excess of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00), regardless of the form of contract.
II.
No competition required
. In addition to the exceptions listed in section 20-2, expenditures to acquire or to pay for the following goods or services may be made without competition or comparison among vendors:
A.
Advertising
space to publish or promote county business and events in geographically appropriate or legal newspapers, publications, television or radio spots, social media or other media outlet.
B.
Auto mileage and personal reimbursements
, which will be reimbursed to county employees in the manner determined by the county’s policies and procedures or other applicable guidelines.
C.
Cooperative purchases
, defined as purchases made from another
contract
or
agreement
written by another federal, state, county, city, government agency, or government cooperative for identical goods or services, do not require additional competition when the agreement has been formally competed or renewed by the acquiring government within the last eighteen (18) months. The finance director may approve a single purchase from a cooperative purchasing agreement or may approve ongoing participation in a cooperative purchasing agreement if it is found to be in the best interests of the county after considering the competitiveness of pricing under the contract and the efficiencies and cost savings of using the contract.
D.
Department of Human Services (“DHS”)
contracts for client services that are paid directly to or on behalf of DHS clients for such items as: transportation, medications, medical examinations, psychological examinations, physical abuse examinations, birth certificates, drug testing, DNA testing, or other expenditures related to case services.
E.
Education and training expenses
for training of county employees may be paid to organizations with public funds without requiring competition among providers.
F.
Goods or services (other than
professional services
) of a similar nature
to those that have been
bid
by the county within the last twelve (12) months calculated from the later of the date the solicitation was let out or date the contract or the
purchase order
was executed.
G.
Goods or services from a specified vendor
when necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of a sponsored grant or contract, or as part of required participation in a state program or pilot project.
H.
Insurance
, including but not limited to all types of the risk management policies or self-insured pools for the county.
I.
Membership dues, meeting registration fees, and miscellaneous travel expenses and meals
incurred to pay for or attend authorized functions will be paid on behalf of or reimbursed to county employees in the manner determined by the county’s personnel policies and procedures or other applicable guidelines.
J.
Non-capital computer equipment
purchases made by the director of information technology (IT), which are valued at fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) or less; provided, however, that, IT must coordinate purchases with the procurement division and, when practical, three (3) quotes should be solicited or cooperative purchases should be pursued.
K.
Personnel
, including benefits as approved by the
BOCC
as compensation (contact human resources department).
L.
Pre-owned equipment or vehicles
provided that the
contract manager
has determined that competition is not practical or would not be advantageous to the county.
M.
Professional services
for contracts that meet one of the following criteria:
1.
Contracts procuring the services of the county manager or county attorney.
2.
Contracts procuring new services from the existing contractor, which services are a continuation of work previously contracted for under competitive procurement practices in the last five (5) years, when the success of the project or
best interests of the county
is predicated upon the previous contractor using data or other materials it developed during the earlier phase of the project.
3.
Contracts for services of a similar nature to those that have been bid by the county within the last three (3) years calculated from the later of the original date an
award
recommendation was made or the date a contract was executed.
N.
Purchases directly from government units
, including federal, state, county, or other local governmental entities may be made without additional competition.
O.
Rent payments
made pursuant to a properly negotiated and authorized lease agreement for equipment, buildings, vehicles, or other items.
P.
Renewal of software license and/or maintenance agreements
when such services are only provided by the current
vendor
.
Q.
Software
purchases made by the director of information technology (IT), which are valued at twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or less; provided, however, that, IT must coordinate purchases with the procurement division and, when practical, three (3) quotes should be solicited or cooperative purchases should be pursued. This includes, but is not limited to, software license renewals and maintenance agreements or upgrades to existing software.
R.
Telephone service
, including both land lines and cell phones.
S.
Utility services
, including by way of example, electrical, water, natural gas, sewer, cable, internet, trash, recycling, or similar services.
T.
Weed and rodent
control cost-share agreements.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-31, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021