Chapter 10 ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Predatory
animal
control
committee, § 2-566 et seq.;
undesirable plant
and
rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Dumping
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612
Division 2. Vaccination and Licensing
Contents:
Sec. 10-20. Rabies Vaccinations Required for Dogs and Cats
Sec. 10-21. Licensing of Dogs Required; License Tags
Sec. 10-20 Rabies Vaccinations Required for Dogs and Cats
Vaccination
.  Any person who harbors or owns any
dog
or
cat
four (4) months of age or older shall have such
animal
vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Colorado, unless one of the following conditions exist:
A veterinarian licensed in Colorado may issue a written waiver exempting the dog or cat from a rabies vaccination, pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-4-607(2), as amended; or
If the dog or cat has inflicted a
bite
upon any person or other animal within the preceding ten (10) day period, the
owner
of the dog or cat shall report such fact to a veterinarian, and no rabies vaccination shall be administered until after a ten (10) day observation period has elapsed.
Vaccinations administered by a licensed veterinarian in another state, and in compliance with the schedule provided herein, will be accepted for dogs or cats of new County residents who have relocated from another state.
Booster/Re-Vaccination
.  A booster vaccination shall be administered one (1) year after the initial vaccination, and then the dog or cat shall be revaccinated every three (3) years thereafter.
New Residents
.  New residents to the County who harbor, own or acquire a dog or cat three (3) months of age or older shall comply with this regulation within thirty (30) days of relocating to the County.
Non-Transferable
.  Rabies vaccination certificates or signed waivers are not transferrable, and it shall be unlawful for any person to use any rabies tag, certificate or waiver for any animal other than animal for which the tag, certificate or waiver was originally issued.
Effective on: 1/17/2017
Sec. 10-21. Licensing of Dogs Required; License Tags
I.
License Required
. Any
owner
of a
dog
three (3) months of age or older that is kept or harbored in unincorporated La Plata
County
for thirty (30) or more days in a calendar year must procure a license for such dog in accordance with the provisions of this section.  New residents to the County must license their dogs within thirty (30) days of relocating to the County.
II.
Vaccinations
.
To obtain a license, the owner must present proof of a current rabies vaccination certificate or vaccination waiver, signed by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Colorado or another state, to the designated County licensing agency.
III.
Expiration and Renewal.
Such licenses
shall
expire on either an annual or tri-annual basis, depending on the duration of the rabies vaccine administered to such dog, as set forth on the current rabies vaccination certificate; or, the duration of the written waiver exempting the dog from a rabies vaccination.  A dog owner must renew the license upon expiration.
IV.
Exemptions.
Permitted facilities, as defined in these regulations, are exempt from the licensing requirements contained in this section.
V.
License Tag.
The license tag issued to the dog owner shall be attached to the collar or harness of the licensed dog and shall be worn at all times by the licensed dog, unless the dog is participating in an activity where attachment of the license tag would constitute a clear danger to the dog.  If the license tag is lost, destroyed or otherwise damaged so as to make the tag unreadable, the owner shall obtain a duplicate license tag from the designated licensing agency within thirty (30) days.
VI.
Non-Transferable.
Dog licenses are not transferrable, and it shall be unlawful for any
person
to
use
any license for any dog other than the dog for which the tag was originally issued.
VII.
Fees.
The fees for licensing shall be established from time to time by ordinance of the
Board of County Commissioners
and are set forth in Section 10-50.
Effective on: 1/17/2017