Chapter 74: Road and Bridge Standards and Permits
Sec. 74-5 Additional road design and construction standards applicable to certain land use permits.
In addition to the other standards set forth in this chapter, unless otherwise exempt, subdivisions with a lot less than thirty-five (35) acres and, depending upon the nature and layout of the project, some minor and major land use permits, as determined at the director’s discretion, shall comply with the following:
I.
Connectivity and circulation standards
.
A.
All lots and parcels shall have access to a public right-of-way or, through a recorded perpetual easement or deed, a private right-of-way.
B.
A central, private road rather than a driveway, is required for all subdivisions with four (4) or more lots accessing directly from a county road. This requirement may be waived by the public works director based on practical or engineering considerations including, but not limited to, topography, parcel shape, grades, vegetative cover, aspect or density.
C.
The arrangement of streets shall, to the maximum extent feasible, provide for the future continuation of streets in nearby subdivisions and adjacent properties.
D.
An applicant may be required to convert a cul-de-sac which is dedicated as a public road to a through street to ensure through circulation for the proposed development.
E.
The decision-making body may require the rearrangement, deletion or addition of streets, lots and entrances if significant safety or other hazards exist in the proposed development.
II.
Sidewalks or pedestrian walkways.
A.
Sidewalks or pedestrian walkways shall be required to extend along property frontage for the entire distance of a lot or project where any of the following apply:
1.
Where improved sidewalks or walkways exist adjacent to a project, and along the right-of-way. In such instances, the project shall connect with and construct sidewalks or walkways of equal or greater quality;
2.
The proposed project is contiguous to a municipality that requires sidewalks for the type of project proposed;
3.
It is determined by the director that the proposed project will generate pedestrian use such as to a school or bus stop.
B.
Sidewalk and pedestrian walkway specifications. Sidewalk and walkways shall conform to the following:
1.
Sidewalks shall be constructed in conformance with CDOT M&S Standard Plan M-609-1. Minimum sidewalk thickness shall be four (4) inches;
2.
All sidewalks shall provide for curb ramps in accordance with state and federal law;
3.
Detectable warning patterns shall be cast iron and shall be on the CDOT Approved Products List.
III.
Phased development
. Phased or serial development shall not be used to circumvent compliance with this chapter. For any initial phases or potential serial development, the director may recommend to the decision-making body conditions of approval that document baseline conditions and require applicants for subsequent phases or serial development to analyze and construct road improvements based on the projected cumulative impacts of all phases of the development. For subsequent phases or serial developments, the public works director may recommend to the decision-making body that the cumulative impacts of the entire phased project or serial development be analyzed to determine the appropriate road improvements and phasing of the same.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 74-5, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020