Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
Article IV. SECURE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Sec. 26-215 Licensure Application Processes
I.
Complete application required.
Complete applications for each secure transportation service license and vehicle permit(s) shall be submitted to t
he
board
or
its authorized representative.  Incomplete applications shall not be accepted.
II.
Fee required.
Each application for a secure transportation service license or vehicle permit shall be accompanied by the required fee, as set forth in Appendix A of this code.
III.
Required secure transportation service license application items.
Applications shall contain, at minimum, the following information, supporting documents, and application fees:
A.
The name, address, email and telephone number(s) of the person applying for the license.
B.
Indication of whether class A or class B secure transportation service licensing option is sought.
C.
The trade or other name, if any, under which the secure transportation service does business or proposes to do business.
D.
The business address of the secure transportation service.
E.
The name, address, email, and telephone number(s) of the owner of the secure transportation service.  If the owner of a secure transportation vehicle or service or the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of each partner. If the owner of a secure transportation vehicle or service or the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company or other entity, the name and address of each stockholder, member or other owning ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding stock, membership interest or other ownership interest, as applicable, each such entity and the name and address of each director or manager of the same.
F.
The description and location of the place or places from which the secure transportation service is intended to operate.
G.
The name, address, email, and telephone number(s) of the staff member(s) responsible for complaint intake and problem resolution.  The county shall provide this information to complainants.
H.
Proof of general liability and applicable professional liability insurance coverage, as set forth in 6 CCR 1011-4 Part 3.3 (6).
I.
Proof of a minimum level of worker’s compensation consistent with the Colorado Worker’s Compensation Act in Articles 40 to 47 of Title 8, C.R.S., as amended.
J.
The name, address, email and telephone number(s) of the manager of record who will be in charge of the operation of the secure transportation Service.
K.
Attestation that the manager of record is in compliance with the minimum qualifications and training set forth in this chapter.
L.
The name, address, email, and telephone number(s) of the administrator of record who will be in charge of the operation of the secure transportation service.
M.
Attestation that the administrator of record is in compliance with the minimum qualifications and training set forth in this chapter.
N.
Attestation that the secure transportation service is in compliance with the client and crew vehicle safety standards requirements set forth in section 26-220 of this chapter.
O.
Documentation of compliance with the requirements for secure transportation vehicle(s) set forth in this chapter as follows:
1.
Document compliance with the secure transportation vehicle permit requirements by either:
a.
Providing a copy of Secure transportation vehicle permit(s) issued by the county for each vehicle to be used in the secure transportation service; or
b.
Submitting a complete application for the secure transportation vehicle permit(s) within two (2) days of the application for the secure transportation service.  The licensing coordinator shall hold the application for the secure transportation service for up to two (2) days pending the submission of completed application(s) for the secure transportation vehicle permit(s).  If no application for secure transportation vehicle permit is received, the licensing coordinator may extend the deadline for good cause.  The county may simultaneously issue the secure transportation service license and the secure transportation vehicle permit(s).
2.
Document the secure transportation service’s authority to use the secure transportation vehicle for the secure transportation service if the secure transportation vehicle is owned by a different entity than the secure transportation service.
P.
Copies of applicant’s written clinical, medical, and operating policies and procedures that comply with the requirements of this chapter.
Q.
Documentation that applicant’s staff training procedures comply with the requirements of this chapter.
R.
Copies of applicant’s written client rights that comply with the requirements of this chapter.
S.
Attestation that applicant has an ongoing quality management program that complies with the requirements of this chapter.
T.
Reserved.
U.
Upon county’s request, the applicant will include other documents required by this Chapter.  Any such documents requested by the county are required to complete the application.
V.
A list of all other counties in the state in which applicant is licensed to provide secure transportation services.
W.
Any known or alleged complaints or violations of the secure transportation service licensing regulations by the secure transportation service or its individual staff members within the state during the most recent twelve (12) months and the resolution of each such complaint or violation.
IV.
Required secure transportation vehicle permit application items.
Applications shall contain, at minimum, the following information, supporting documents, and application fees for each secure transportation vehicle to be used to provide secure transportation service within the county:
A.
The name, address, email and telephone number(s) of the person applying for the license.
B.
Indication of whether type 1 or type 2 secure transportation service licensing option is sought.
C.
The trade or other name, if any, under which the secure transportation vehicle owner does business or proposes to do business.
D.
The business address of the secure transportation vehicle owner.
E.
Documentation of compliance with the requirem
ents for secure transportation services as set forth in this chapter.
1.
Document compliance with the secure transportation service license requirements by providing either:
a.
Secure transportation service license issued by the county; or
b.
Attestation that a complete application for a secure transportation service license has been submitted within the last two (2) days.  The county may simultaneously issue the secure transportation service license and the secure transportation vehicle permit(s).
2.
If the secure transportation service license is issued to a different entity than the secure transportation vehicle owner, provide documentation of secure transportation service’s authorization to use the secure transportation vehicle.
F.
The name, address, email, and telephone number(s) of the owner of the secure transportation vehicle.  If the owner of a secure transportation vehicle or service or the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of each partner. If the owner of a secure transportation vehicle or service or the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company or other entity, the name and address of each stockholder, member or other owning ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding stock, membership interest or other ownership interest, as applicable, each such entity and the name and address of each director or manager of the same.
G.
The description and location of the place or places from which the secure transportation vehicle will be operated.
H.
Demonstration of applicant’s minimum vehicle insurance coverage as defined by C.R.S. §§ 10-4-609 and 42-7-103(2) with the county identified as the certificate holder and any other insurance required by this regulation.
I.
For each secure transportation vehicle used by the secure transportation service, complete vehicle fleet information including: vehicle identification number (VIN), make, model, year, state license plate number, date of secure transportation vehicle inspection within one year, and a copy of the current secure transportation vehicle permit if previously issued.
J.
For each secure transportation vehicle used by the secure transportation service, an inspection report prepared by a qualified inspector appointed by the board and dated within one year of application verifying that:
1.
All equipment on the vehicle is properly secured and supplies are maintained and stored in accordance with this chapter and any manufacturer recommendations; and
2.
All applicable client and crew vehicle safety standards are met, as set forth in 6 CCR 1011-4 Part 3.3 (A) (10).
K.
A list of all other counties in the state in which the vehicle is permitted to provide secure transportation services.
L.
Any known or alleged complaints or violations of the secure transportation service licensing regulations by the secure transportation service or its individual staff members within the state during the most recent twelve (12) months and the resolution of each such complaint or violation.
V.
Process and requirements for renewal of licenses and vehicle permit(s).
A.
Timely submission requirements.
An application for renewal shall be filed no earlier than sixty (60) days but not less than thirty (30) days before the date the license expires.  If the renewal application is received in a timely manner, the license will not be suspended pending administration and completion of the renewal process. License renewals shall be issued administratively unless the board, its authorized representative, an interested party, or the applicant requests a full hearing to present evidence that the secure transportation service is not in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. If a full hearing is necessary or requested, the board shall review the application, the secure transportation service’s record and hold a public hearing to allow input from interested parties. License renewal shall be granted by vote of the board and shall be valid for the period set forth in these regulations beginning on the date of issue, provided that the secure transportation service is in compliance with all applicable provisions of these regulations.
B.
Required renewal application items.
Applications shall contain the following information, supporting documents, and application fees for each secure transportation service or secure transportation vehicle(s) to be used to provide secure transportation service within the county:
1.
For secure transportation service renewals, a completed application for renewal containing the information set forth in part III of this section.
2.
For secure transportation vehicle permit(s)
, a completed renewal application containing the information and documentation set forth in part IV of this section.
3.
A report of any complaints against the secure transportation service, including its individual staff members and the secure transportation vehicle, in the state within the last twelve (12) months, and the resolution thereof.
4.
Attestation that the secure transportation service is in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(
Res. No.
2022-30
, § 26-215, 12/06/2022
)
Effective on: 1/1/2023