Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
Article IV. SECURE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Sec. 26-250 Complaints
I.
Origination of complaints.
A.
Alleged violation of these regulations by a licensed or unlicensed secure transportation service, individual staff members or employees of a licensed secure transportation service, or of a secure transportation service op
erating in the
county
without a license, may be made in writing by any party and addressed to the
board
, verbally to the deputy county manager or licensing coordinator, by email, or by the board on its own initiative. A standard form to
be used for this purpose may be obtained online on the county website or by contacting county administration.
B.
If any legal action is filed against a secure transportation service in a court of the United States, the State of Colorado or any of its political subdivisions, the licensee shall notify the board within ten (10) business days. A violation of these regulations shall not be presumed based on the allegation. In the event that a judgment is entered against the licensee, the licensee shall file a copy of the findings of fact, conclusions of law and order of the court with the board within ten (10) business days. If an action against a secure transportation service licensee is undertaken by another jurisdiction, the licensee shall notify the board within ten (10) business days. A violation of these regulations shall not be presumed based on the action. If the action results in a suspension or revocation of the secure transportation service license by another jurisdiction, the licensee shall file a copy of the record of the adverse action with the board within ten (10) business days.
II.
Notification of complaint initiation
.
The board shall provide the secure transportation service with a copy of the complaint at the time it is filed.
III.
Review of complaints.
The county shall contact the complainant to verify the substance of the allegations.   Allegations of violations outside the purview of the board shall be returned to the complainant for referral to the appropriate authority or jurisdiction.  The board, with the assistance of the council, shall complete an initial review of the complaint, judgment or adverse action within ten (10) business days following receipt to determine if it constitutes an apparent violation of these
regulations
and has sufficient foundation to warrant a complete investigation.  The board shall notify the complainant in writing if the allegation lacks sufficient basis to warrant further investigation.
IV.
Investigation of complaints.
Any apparent violation of these regulations having sufficient factual basis shall be fully and timely investigated by the board.  Vehicles, records, personal property and all information the county deems relevant to investigate the allegation shall be made available for inspection by the county and its investigators within ten (10) business days.  The licensing coordinator and the sheriff’s office is hereby authorized to assist or conduct such investigation.  The investigation shall be documented in writing and retained consistent with the county’s document retention policies.
V.
Resolution of Complaints.
A.
The board shall document the resolution of any compliant made and retain such documentation consistent with the county’s document retention policies.
B.
The board may commence action against the secure transportation service or unlicensed secure transportation service to suspend or revoke a license or permit pursuant to section 26-260 upon its determination that there has been a violation of these regulations.
C.
The board, at its discretion, may provide a reasonable period of time for the licensee to cure any violation or to implement corrective measures to bring the licensee's business activities into compliance with these regulations before commencing action to suspend or revoke a license or permit.  The board may forego further hearing or action against the license or permit upon confirmation that the licensee has cured the violation and satisfied any conditions reasonably imposed by the board.
D.
The board shall notify the complainant in writing if an investigation determines that the allegation fails to constitute a violation of these regulations, or that the licensee has cured the violation.  If the licensee has a plan to resolve identified issues, the board shall so notify the complainant.
E.
The board shall notify the secure transportation service, its owner, manager, and administrator, in writing of:
1.
Any known violation of the secure transportation licensing regulation by the secure transportation service, or
2.
Any known or alleged complaints or violations of the secure transportation licensing regulations by individual staff members or contractors.
F.
Upon request or its own initiative, the board may provide information in writing about complaints regarding secure transportation service, its employees, or its vehicles to other counties with jurisdiction over secure transportation services, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, or the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies.
(
Res. No.
2022-30
, § 26-250, 12/06/2022
)
Effective on: 1/1/2023