Chapter 65 Animas Valley Zone Districts and Economic Development Areas
Overview
This
code
is premised upon
performance-based zoning
and the type of standards more particularly described in the overview of chapter 70. However, in the Animas Valley,
traditional zoning
has been adopted. This chapter contains detailed
use
,
density
and
lot
standards for
development
covered by the Animas Valley Land Use Plan (AVLUP). Applications for
development
in the Animas Valley should refer to this chapter to determine (1) if the proposed use is allowed and what type of review procedures apply, (2) what minimum
lot size
, maximum
density
, minimum
open space
and maximum
impervious coverage
standards may apply, and (3) whether any supplemental use,
density
and
development
standards are applicable because of the property’s location in the Animas Valley River Corridor District or one of several Animas Valley Neighborhood Overlay Zoning Districts.
This chapter is also intended to accommodate future placement of unique standards that may apply to economic
development
areas, once designated under section 66-38, or future overlay areas that may be adopted relative to requirements for
affordable housing
or other matters.
Sec. 65-5 Economic Development Areas
I.
Purpose.
The purpose of an
economic development area
is to encourage economic development with an efficient process and predictable land uses. This is accomplished by providing, after approval of designation of the area, an
administrative land use permit
process for commercial, industrial, and mixed-use projects in appropriate areas of the county that would otherwise require minor or major land use permits.
II.
Creation of district.
The board shall determine, by resolution, specific districts of the county which are appropriate for designation as economic development areas, pursuant to section 66-38.
III.
Process; application requirements; standards.
In economic development areas designated pursuant to section 66-38, an application for a commercial, industrial or mixed-use project shall be processed as an administrative land use permit pursuant to section 66-18. The submittal requirements and standards for such development within an economic development area shall be consistent with those requirements and standards that apply to developments requiring a major land use permit, except that the compatibility assessment pursuant to section 70-5 shall not apply. In all other respects, development within an economic development area shall be consistent with the processes and standards of this code.
IV.
Established economic development areas enumerated.
The following economic development areas have been established:
A.
Gem Village (established pursuant to Resolution No. 1995-35).
1.
Qualifying development. The following development that would otherwise require a minor or major land use permit pursuant to sections 66-6 and 66-7, instead qualify for an administrative land use permit:
a.
Commercial development or redevelopment;
b.
Industrial development or redevelopment;
c.
Mixed use development;
d.
Commercial outdoor storage or parking of equipment, machines, tools, products, raw materials, cars and/or trucks, including
salvage
/
junk yards
;
e.
Large childcare centers as defined and regulated by the state department of human services.
B.
Reserved.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 65-5, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020