Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 1: Fire Impact Fee for Durango Fire Protection District
Sec. 44-11 Interpretation, Conflict, Severability
I.
Liberal construction.
The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its purposes which are hereby found and declared to be in furtherance of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience.
II.
Conflict.
To the extent of any conflict between other provisions found in other chapters of the county code and this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be controlling with respect to impact fees; provided, however, that unless expressly provided herein, this chapter is not intended to amend or repeal any existing county ordinance or regulation, which shall continue in full force and effect after the passage, approval and publication of this chapter.
III.
Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter shall be deemed to be a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this chapter, nor impair or nullify the remainder of this chapter which shall continue in full force and effect.
IV.
If the application of any provision of this chapter to any person, applicant or new development is declared, for any reason, to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the intent of the Board of County Commissioners is that such decision shall be limited to that particular circumstance immediately involved in the controversy, action or proceeding in which such decision of invalidity was rendered. Such decision shall not affect, impair or nullify this chapter as a whole or the application of any provision of this chapter to any other person, applicant or new development.
(
Res. No.
2022-19
, ยง  10/11/2022
)
Effective on: 10/11/2022