Chapter 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-11. Supplementation of Code.
By contract or by
county
personnel, supplements to this
Code
shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances or resolutions passed by the county or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance or resolution included in the supplement.
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person
, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement)
may
make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
Organize the ordinance or resolution material into appropriate subdivisions;
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
Change the words "this ordinance or resolution" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ____________ to ____________" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance or resolution incorporated into the Code); and
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance or resolution sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance or resolution material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Res. No. 1997-61, 10-14-1997)
Effective on: 1/1/1901