Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-38 Disposal of county property
This procedure shall be used for disposing of all county-owned personal property acquired with county funds pursuant to this code or prior procurement codes, including but not limited to goods.
I.
Authority
. Department heads and elected officials have the authority to deem personal property to be surplus, except for: (1) computer and computer-related equipment, which can be declared as surplus only by the IT department; and (2) vehicles and other motorized equipment, which shall be declared surplus only by the general services department.
Storage, recycling, disposition or disposal of surplus personal property with a replacement cost of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be at the discretion of the appropriate department head or elected official; provided that donation of items to county employees is strictly prohibited, except as set forth in subsections (III) and (IV) below. The procurement division shall have the authority to determine the disposition of all
surplus property
which has a replacement cost of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more.
II.
Approved dispositions
. When surplus property cannot be sold to a bona-fide third party for value, approved dispositions, in the order of priority, include:
A.
The exchange or trade-in of supplies as part or full payment for the
procurement
of new supplies.
B.
The transfer of property no longer needed by one county department or
elected official
to another department or elected official. Surplus county property shall first be offered to other county departments via email. The property will be distributed on a first come, first served basis.
C.
Transfer to another governmental agency.
D.
Transfer of property to a registered 501(c) non-profit entity serving local needs, including any recipients of DHS
contract
awards
or other non-profit agencies.
E.
Sale of supplies that cannot be used by any department or elected official, by public auction or other public
advertisement
, as deemed appropriate by the finance director, in accordance with subsection (IV) below.
F.
Sale at salvage or scrap.
G.
Disposal of surplus personal property that is deemed unfit for disposition in any other manner.
III.
Prohibited dispositions
. County employees and their
immediate family
members are prohibited from purchasing surplus property, unless such purchases are made at a public auction or other advertised sale. Notwithstanding the foregoing, obsolete computers and computer-related equipment that is deemed by the IT director, or the director’s designee, to net less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) in any public sale may be offered to county employees, free of charge.
IV.
Manner of sale.
A.
Sales under $2,000. A total sale (representing a single transaction of one or more items) estimated to be under two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) should be made by informal procedures calculated to achieve the maximum financial benefit to La Plata County.
B.
Sales of $2,000 or more
. A total sale (representing a single transaction of one or more items) of surplus property in estimated amounts of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or more shall be formally advertised,
sealed
bids
shall be taken, and the bids received shall be submitted to the
contract manager
for award. Sale by public auction may be used in lieu of sealed bids.
1.
La Plata County employees may submit sealed bids and may bid on surplus property at public auction.
2.
If no monetary offers are received in the form of sealed bids or bids at public auction, the finance director may negotiate a sale. County employees may not procure any surplus county property through a negotiated sale of any type.
V.
Returns
. Nothing contained in this
code
shall be construed to prohibit the return of unused
goods
, which are surplus to the requirements of the county. Unused goods, supplies or equipment may be returned to the original contractor with or without a restocking fee if this method of disposal will result in higher benefit to the county.
VI.
Refunds
. Funds received from the sale of surplus property will be credited back to the same fund from which its original purchase originated.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-38, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021