Chapter 62 Title, Effective Date, Purposes and Definitions
Sec. 62-3 Purposes
I.
General purposes
.
This section identifies the purposes La Plata County intends to achieve by adopting this
code
. These purposes serve as basic goals for this
code
and the review of applications for land
use
and
development
.  When there is a conflict between a statement of purpose and an adopted
standard
in this
code
, or when an adopted standard is more specific, the standard shall supersede these purposes. This code shall be liberally construed to further its stated purposes.
II.
This land use
code
is adopted for the purpose of preserving and improving the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens and businesses of the
county
. More specifically, it is the purpose of this
code
to:
A.
Implement the purposes, goals, and policies of the
comprehensive plan
, including but not limited to the land
use
goals, strategies, and preferences expressed in the
district plans
;
B.
Plan for and regulate the
use
of land and to provide planned and orderly
use
of land and protection of the environment in a manner consistent with constitutional rights, and without unnecessary time and expense by
applicants
or the public;
C.
Preserve the
character
of established
residential
areas and
residential
neighborhoods;
D.
Encourage a variety of housing types and an adequate housing stock sufficient to meet community needs;
E.
Eliminate, minimize, or
mitigate
conflicts among different land uses and
adverse impacts
the use of land may have on surrounding areas and the community;
F.
Manage and guide land development in order to:
1. ​​​​Promote compact development patterns;
2. Encourage development patterns that will tend to minimize the cost of providing governmental and other services and will preserve
open space
;
3. Ensure adequate
facilities
;
4. Ensure that development provides or is served by adequate transportation, water supply, wastewater treatment, other
utilities
and public services, schools, open space, parks,
trails
, and similar facilities; enhance the economic wellbeing of the community and its residents through innovative land use areas as well as an efficient, timely, and cost-effective process for development when that use is deemed appropriate for the proposed location;
5. Regulate the general location, character and extent of
public facilities
, ways, grounds, and places, including
public utilities
;
6. Promote innovation in land development patterns that contribute to continuing viable
agricultural
operations of all sizes and recognize the
public benefit
of protecting the open space that agricultural operations provide, and to discourage land development patterns that jeopardize those activities. To encourage land development that will retain the agricultural productivity of the land and discourage land use change that will
adversely affect
agricultural operations on other lands. However, it is not the policy of the land use code to prevent land use development on land because such land was at one time used for agricultural purposes, nor to require continued agricultural use of land that is otherwise suitable for nonagricultural use and that can otherwise be developed in compliance with the terms of this code;
7. Preserve and maintain the county’s rich and vast scenic and historical resources that are important to both its character and economy;
8. Recognize the irreplaceable
character
of the environment and its importance to the quality of life in the
county
, to ensure that land
use development
does not degrade or threaten the existing high quality of the environment in the
county
.  To preserve and protect the quality and quantity of water; to protect and preserve lands from land
use
activities and patterns of
development
that would cause significant
adverse impacts
to
wildlife habitat
and to discourage land uses that will impair or destroy such habitats, or their utilization by
wildlife
species, or that would endanger a
wildlife
species. To regulate land
use
and activities in
natural hazard
areas by avoidance, and if avoidance is not possible, to reduce or minimize
hazards
to public health, safety, and property in those areas with minimum expenditure of public funds. To prevent activities and land
use
in
natural hazard
areas that would increase the scope or impact of such
natural hazards
.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 62-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020