Chapter 18 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article II general provisions
Sec. 18-35  Scope and Administration
Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Residential Code and Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Building Code are deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
(
Res. No. 2004-15, § 1 (Exh. A), 05/24/2004; Res. No. 2017-33, § 18-35, 10/10/2017; Res. No. 2023-15, § 18-35, 06/06/2023
)
Section 114
Violations
114.1 Unlawful acts.  It shall be unlawful for any
person
,
firm
or corporation to erect, construct,
alter
, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any
building
,
structure
or
equipment
regulated by this
Code
, or cause the same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this Code.
114.2 Violations. As provided in C.R.S. § 30-28-209, any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this Code is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100. Each day during which such illegal erections,
construction
, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or
use
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In case any building or structure is, or is proposed to be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, remodeled, used, or maintained in violation of any regulation or provision of this Code or amendment thereto, as enacted or adopted by the
Board of County Commissioners
under the authority granted by C.R.S. § 30-28-209, the La Plata
County
Attorney, in
addition
to other remedies provided by law, may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, remodeling, maintenance or use.
114.3   Notice of violation.  The
building official
is authorized to serve a notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension, repair, moving removal, demolition or occupancy of a building or structure in violation of the provisions of this Code, or in violation of a
permit
or certificate issued under the provisions of this Code.  Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action of condition and the abatement of the violation.
114.4   Prosecution of violation.  If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the building official is authorized to request the County Attorney to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal of termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of this Code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
114.5   Violation penalties.  Any person who violates a provision of this Code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
114.6 Transfer of ownership.  It shall be a violation of this Code for the
owner
of any
commercial
or
residential
structure who has received a notice of violation from the building official or La Plata County Attorney, to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease, or otherwise dispose of the structure to another until the provisions of the notice of violation have been complied with, or until such owner first furnishes the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or
lessee
a true copy of any notice of violation. In instances where the owner proposes to sell or mortgage the structure, the owner must also furnish to the building official a signed and notarized statement from the grantee or mortgagee acknowledging the receipt of such notice of violation, and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such notice of violation.
(
Res. No. 2022-18, § 18-35, 09/13/2022
)
Effective on: 9/13/2022