Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
sec. 69-8 levels of permit review and changes in level of review
There are three (3) pos
sible levels of permit review under this chapter: a
FONSI
, an administrative
permit
review and a major permit review. The
director
shall make the initial determination of the appropriate level of permit review based upon the pre-submittal meeting and the
applicant
’s submittals.
The director’s determination may be appealed as provided in subsection 69-8.VI.
I.
FONSI. The director may determine that no
significant
impacts
are likely to occur from the
project
and therefore a permit under this chapter is not required. The director may make a FONSI if either of the following are satisfied:
A.
The construction or operation of the project, without additional
mitigation
or through the mitigation requirements of another applicable land use review or permit process, in its proposed location is unlikely to have any significant
adverse
impact to the
county
in consideration of all the approval criteria in these regulations; or
B.
The project was reviewed and approved by the county in conjunction with a land use approved prior to October 1, 2019 and the following requirements have been satisfied:
1.
The proposed project is located entirely within the boundaries of such
development
application;
2.
The approval criteria in this chapter have been satisfied in the course of the development application approval process; and
3.
No additional mitigation is necessary.
If the director makes a FONSI, the applicant does not need to submit a permit application under this chapter unless the
board
deems that a permit is necessary, following an appeal of the director's FONSI determination. If the director determines a FONSI is not appropriate based upon review of the pre-submittal materials and the information obtained at the pre-submittal meeting, the applicant must obtain a permit.
II.
Administrative permit review. The director shall determine an administrative permit review is required unless the director has made a FONSI determination or determines pursuant to subsection III below that the project warrants a major permit review.
III.
Major permit review. If the director determines a FONSI is not appropriate, the director shall determine whether the project should be subject to the administrative or major permit review provisions of this chapter. The director shall determine that a major permit review is required if:
A.
The project is likely to have a significant adverse impact in two (2) or more categories of criteria as described in the approval criteria section of this chapter; or
B.
The project is likely to have severe adverse impacts in any one (1) category of criteria as described in the approval criteria section of this chapter.
IV.
Change in level of permit review. At any time prior to the final decision on an application, the director may determine that information received subsequent to the level of permit determination indicates that the nature and scope of the impacts of the project are such that a different level of permit review is required. If a different level of permit review is required, the director shall notify the applicant in writing within seven (7) days of the director’s determination of the necessity for the change.
V.
Director determination. The director shall determine, in writing the applicable level of permit review. The director shall make this determination within ten (10) business days after the pre-submittal meeting in which the applicant provides adequate information for the director to make such a determination. A notice of the determination of level of permit review shall be published in the legal notice section of a newspaper of general circulation within seven (7) days of the determination. The notice shall describe the project and the procedure for appealing the determination as provided in subsection VI below.
VI.
Appeals to the board.
Any
affected party
may appeal to the board the determination made by the director under subsection 69-8.V above.
Such appeal
shall be in writing, shall stat
e with specificity their interest in the matter, relationship to the project
and applicant
and the grounds for the appeal, and shall be filed with the director within ten (10) days of th
e director’s publication of the determination. Upon the timely filing of such appeal, the board shall review the director’s determination within fourteen (14) days. The board may amend the director’s determination based on the materials submitted in connection with the appeal, the information and/or materials relied on by the director, and the same applicable provisions from this chapter.
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-8, 10/01/2019
)
Effective on: 1/1/1901