CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-34 Development agreements
I.
Purpose.
In connection with any development approval, the board shall be authorized, as a legislative act, to enter into a development agreement with the applicant. Development agreements may include provisions clarifying the phasing of construction, the timing, location and financing of infrastructure, reimbursement of oversized infrastructure, vesting of property rights for periods in excess of three (3) years, assurances that adequate public facilities (including roads, water, sewer and fire protection) will be available as they are needed to serve the development and mitigation of anticipated impacts of the development on the general public. Development agreements should not be used to avoid or circumvent requirements of this code.
II.
Contents.
Development agreements may, without limitation, contain the following:
A.
Description of the acceptable and prohibited uses on the property;
B.
The density of proposed uses, including maximum floor area and height of buildings;
C.
Provisions for the preservation or dedication of land for public purposes;
D.
Proposed schedule for the construction of public improvements and assurances that public improvements will be available as needed to serve new development;
E.
Proposed timing and phasing of the project;
F.
Provisions to mitigate the impacts of the development on the general public, including the protection of the environmentally sensitive lands;
G.
Provisions for public benefits or improvements in excess of what is required by county policy or law;
H.
Terms relating to applicant financing of facilities and subsequent reimbursement;
I.
Terms for subsequent discretionary actions, provided such terms shall not prevent the development of the property for the uses set forth in the agreement;
J.
A provision that construction shall begin by a specified date or that certain phases shall be completed within a specified time;
K.
Termination date for the development agreement.
III.
Notice requirements and public meeting.
A.
After a proposed development agreement has been negotiated by staff and the applicant, the review body, if applicable, and decision-making body shall each conduct a public meeting at which it shall review and take action on the proposed development agreement.
B.
The process shall include posting the subject property with a notice of public meeting, publishing a notice of the public meeting and providing mail notification to adjacent property owners as prescribed by section 66-14.
C.
Upon approval of the development agreement, a notice of such approval and creation of the vested right shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the county no later than fourteen (14) days following approval.
IV.
Approval criteria
. The county shall consider and act upon a request for a development agreement in its sole discretion and the terms of the development agreement may involve negotiation between the county and the developer. The board shall be the decision-making body for all development agreements and the director may, depending upon the nature of the development agreement, also seek review of the development agreement by the applicable review body. If a subdivision or planned unit development is associated with the proposed development agreement, the development agreement shall be reviewed by the review body and decision-making body at the same time as the subdivision or planned unit development. In reviewing and acting upon proposed development agreements, the decision-making body and review body, if applicable, shall consider the review and approval criteria for the development application and the following additional criteria:
A.
Whether the plan or project is sufficiently well-defined to justify vesting for the period proposed;
B.
Whether there are sufficient corresponding benefits to the county and its citizens to justify granting any or all of the vested property rights requested for the development;
C.
Whether any forecasts of future off-site land uses, infrastructure, traffic and drainage conditions are reliable throughout the vesting period, as those studies are required to be updated from time to time;
D.
Whether the development agreement is required to mitigate impacts that would otherwise make the proposed development unacceptable.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 66-33, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020