Chapter 38 PUBLIC PLACES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Aviation, ch. 14; roads and bridges, ch. 42; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54; vegetation, ch. 58; natural resources, ch. 90; land
use
laws for public property, ch. 94; zoning, ch. 106.
ARTICLE I. PUBLIC USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—Ordinance No. 2025-01, adopted February 11, 2025, deleted Article I of Chapter 38 in its entirety and replaced the provisions contained within Ordinance No. 2025-01 from those of Res. Nos. 2014-17 and 2018-02, and Ord. Nos. 2022-01 and 2024-01 as the current provisions regarding use of county property.
Sec. 38-1. General provisions.
The county owns and operates real properties which enable the county to deliver efficient and effective services to the citizens of La Plata County.  Except as set forth in this article, all county property, both real and personal, are non-public forums and are reserved solely for official government business. The board finds that certain regulations are needed to meet the county’s obligations to responsibly manage its real property, to meet its obligations for the orderly and safe operation of its facilities and to provide certain designated public or limited public forums for free speech by citizens.  The board further finds that certain conduct on county-owned properties is a threat to public safety and health and interferes with the public’s ability to use county-owned property for its intended use.
I.
Purpose. The purposes of this article include:
A.
Establishing procedures for entering or remaining in certain areas of county property that are not open to the public or are open to the public only during certain operating hours;
B.
Prohibiting littering, fires and criminal activity on county property;
C.
Establishing regulations for the disposal of abandoned personal property or the removal of unauthorized structures, camping equipment and other personal property from county property;
D.
Establishing regulations regarding the erection of structures or placing equipment or other items on county property;
E.
Establishing camping regulations for all county property;
F.
Prohibiting openly carrying a firearm on any county property where signs prohibiting firearms have been posted in compliance with C.R.S. § 29-11.7-104, either permanently or temporarily;
G.
Confirming the prohibition of carrying a firearm in certain sensitive spaces designated by the State as places with longstanding laws prohibiting carrying firearms;
H.
Prohibiting marijuana and marijuana-infused products on county property;
I.
Prohibiting psilocybin, psilocyn and other natural medicine uses on county property;
J.
Informing members of the public of the manner in which they may engage in constitutionally protected speech and expression upon county properties;
K.
Establishing rules and requirements regarding posting or placing written material, or placing any items of any sort, on county property; and
L.
Otherwise establishing rules and requirements regarding the public’s use of county property.
II.
Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
A.
Abandoned. Personal property on county property that is presumed to be abandoned by the owner or custodian permits an authorizing official to take custody when:
1.
The property is placed out for collection in conjunction with solid waste or recyclable material on the scheduled date for collection by authorized waste haulers, or it is placed there on a date contemporaneous with a community collection or cleanup;
2.
The property is not associated with an authorized encampment and a reasonable person would not allow the property to be there unattended for the length of time the personal property has been there, considering the location of the personal property on county property, the type of property, the danger of theft, and the risk of damage from weather;
3.
No name appears on the property and the occupant or owner of the adjacent real property on inquiry disclaims ownership; or
4.
The property is unattended on a county road, right-of-way, trail or planting strip adjoining a county-owned property.
B.
Authorizing official. As to property under their jurisdiction, an elected official or county employee performing official duties and their respective authorized designees.
C.
Board. The Board of County Commissioners of La Plata County.
D.
Camp or camping. The parking of a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle for the apparent purpose of overnight occupancy or to erect a tent or other shelter, or to assemble camping equipment or personal property that evidences to a reasonable person that a person has remained or intends to remain, on county property overnight or on county property when it is closed to the public. Camping equipment includes, but is not limited to: tarps, blankets, sleeping bags, cooking equipment, sleeping equipment, any cover that protects a person from the elements other than clothing, and other items commonly associated with remaining overnight.
E.
County property. County-owned real property or property where the county is the lessee or has been granted or otherwise obtained an easement including but not necessarily limited to: buildings, including sidewalks or parking lots appurtenant thereto, county trails, vacant lands, open space, conservation easements, county-owned and maintained roads, rights-of-way or easements, ditches and drainage facilities. For purposes of this section, county property does not include the Durango-La Plata County Airport, water or mineral rights or real property leased by the county to a tenant pursuant to a written lease agreement.
F.
Contraband. Any property that is unlawful to produce or possess.
G.
County department or department. A division or department of the county, including those operated by an elected official.
H.
County trail(s). A path or marked route that provides access for pedestrian, bicycling or equestrian, non-motorized traffic that provides opportunities for walking, bicycling, horseback riding or other compatible activities which the county owns or is the dominant estate holder under an easement agreement and described in Resolution No. 2000-5 of the La Plata County Planning Commission adopting the La Plata County Trails Plan, as may be amended and updated from time to time.
I.
Electronic smoking device. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person in any manner for the purpose of inhaling vapor or aerosol from the product. The term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, dab rig or vape pen, or under any other product name or descriptor.
J.
Encampment. One or more tent, structure, or assembly of camping equipment or personal property located in an identifiable area either partially or wholly on county property, which appears to a reasonable person to be being used for camping. An identifiable area includes areas where the tents or structures are in plain sight of each other.
K.
Facilities. County-owned buildings, including sidewalks and parking areas appurtenant thereto, but excluding the La Plata County Fairgrounds and county roads.
L.
Freedom of speech or expression. Any lawful expression or verbal or written means by which individuals may communicate ideas to one another, including all forms of peaceful assembly, protests, speaking verbally, holding signs, circulating petitions and distributing written materials. “Expression” includes voter registration activities but does not include speech that is primarily for a commercial purpose, including the promotion, sale or distribution of any product or service.
M.
Firearm(s). Any handgun, automatic, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other instrument or device capable or intended to be capable of discharging bullets, cartridges or other explosive charges whether loaded or unloaded.
N.
Garbage or refuse. Any item that in its present condition has no apparent utility.
O.
Hazardous item. An item that reasonably appears to pose a health or safety risk to members of the public, to county employees or to other authorized personnel. Hazardous items may include human and biological waste, combustible materials, blankets, clothing, sleeping bags, mattresses, e-waste, household hazardous waste, used oil, tires, dead animals or other items depending upon their condition and site conditions.
P.
Hookah. A water pipe and any associated products and devices which are used to produce fumes, smoke, and/or vapor from the burning of material including, but not limited to, tobacco, shisha, or other plant matter.
Q.
Litter. Rubbish, waste material, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, or other foreign substances, solid or liquid, of every form, size, kind and description.
R.
Manager. Either the county manager, deputy county manager or their respective authorized designee.
S.
Motor vehicle. Motor vehicle shall have the same meaning as set forth in C.R.S. § 44-20-102(16).
T.
Official government business. Use of La Plata County property by the county itself, its elected officials, departments, employees, appointed boards and commissions, and any other government or public entities authorized by La Plata County to use county property. Such official governmental use includes, but is not limited to:
1.
Conducting meetings;
2.
The official posting or publication of notices for public purposes or for employment purposes as may be required or permitted by law;
3.
The display of public information related specifically to the governmental or public mission or function of a particular office, official, or department occupying the county property;
4.
Building directory, informational, or regulatory signage; and
5.
In the reasonable discretion of the board, the decoration of any county property with photographs, artifacts, art, information, or other items and materials for educational or commemorative purposes.
U.
Open space. Land owned, operated, and occupied by the county, either improved or unimproved, including unsanctioned trails or land predominately in its natural state, riparian areas, watersheds or other habitat areas.
V.
Recreational vehicle. A vehicle designed to be used primarily as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use that either has its own motor power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. “Recreational vehicle” includes camping trailers, fifth wheel trailers, motor homes, travel trailers, multipurpose trailers and truck campers as those terms are defined in C.R.S. § 24-3-902.
W.
Personal property. An item that is: (1) reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person; (2) in its present condition has apparent utility; and (3) is not hazardous. Examples of personal property include but are not limited to: tents, bicycles, radios or other electronic equipment, personal identification or documentation, eyeglasses, prescription medications, photographs, jewelry, crutches and wheelchairs. Personal property does not include building materials such as natural materials, wood products, metal, pallets or rigid plastic. The authorizing official should resolve a reasonable doubt as to whether an item is personal property in favor of deciding the item is personal property and treat it accordingly under this section.
X.
Smoking. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying of any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, hookah, or any other product intended for inhalation, whether natural or synthetic, including marijuana/cannabis, in any manner or in any form. “Smoking” includes the use of an electronic smoking device which creates an aerosol or vapor, in any manner or in any form.
Y.
Structure, tent and other shelters. Anything constructed or erected on or under the ground, or any improvement built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. Structures include, but are not limited to: buildings, lean-tos, tents, awnings, pallets, covers or protections from the elements other than personal clothing, and tarps. Structure or other shelter shall not include buildings or facilities constructed by or on behalf of the county.
Z.
Unauthorized item. An item that is abandoned on county property, is present on county property without a required permit or other authorization, or evidences use for camping in violation of applicable law or this section.
AA.
Unsanctioned trail(s). Trails on county property created by trespassers or parties other than the county or the county’s designee or easement holder(s) and not described in Resolution No. 2000-5 of the La Plata County Planning Commission adopting the La Plata County Trails Plan, as may be amended and updated from time to time.
(
Res. No.
2014-17
, § 1, 02/25/2014
;
Ord. No.
2018-02
, §  06/12/2018; Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 38-1 (Exh. D), 09/27/2022; Ord. No.
2024-01
, § 38-1, 01/09/2024; Ord. No.
2025-01
, §  02/11/2025
)
Effective on: 2/14/2025