Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
DIVISION 2. COUNTY ROAD ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Note—
See editor's note at division 1.
Cross reference—
Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 54-57. Authority for immobilization and impoundment.
When a driver,
owner
or
person
in charge of a
vehicle
has failed to respond to a notice of illegal parking and has failed to respond to the additional notice sent to the registered owner, deputies of the
county
sheriff
may
and are hereby authorized to temporarily, and for a period of 72 hours, immobilize such vehicle by installing or attaching to such vehicle a device designated to restrict the normal movement of such vehicle. If a vehicle is so immobilized, the deputy sheriff installing or attaching such device
shall
conspicuously affix to such vehicle a notice in writing on form provided by the county, advising the owner, driver or person in charge of such vehicle that such vehicle has been immobilized by the county for
violation
of one or more of the above referenced provisions. Such notice shall also advise the owner, driver or person in charge of such vehicle that release from such immobilization may be obtained at a designated place and that unless arrangements are made for the release from immobilization of such vehicle within 72 hours, the vehicle will be removed from the county road at the direction of a deputy sheriff. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove any such device before a release is obtained as provided in this section. If the vehicle has remained immobilized for a period of 72 hours or more and release has not been obtained within such period, or if the vehicle must be removed for purposes of road maintenance or snow removal, a deputy sheriff or a county employee shall have the authority to have such vehicle impounded.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, § 3(Exh. A), 4-22-2014)
Effective on: 4/22/2014