Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-3 Additional dwelling units
I.
Applicability.
Additional dwelling units are allowed in conjunction with a principal single family residential dwelling unit provided the additional dwelling unit complies with the standards of this section.
II.
No land use permit required.
A second dwelling unit on one (1) parcel does not require a land use permit if the parcel is at least seventy (70) acres. A third dwelling unit on one (1) parcel does not require a land use permit if the parcel is at least one hundred and five (105) acres.
III.
Director determination.
A.
Agricultural second or third dwelling unit. Applications for a director determination for a second or third dwelling unit on one (1) agricultural parcel may be approved pursuant to this subsection and shall follow the process established in section 66-4 if sufficient written documentation is submitted and supports the following requirements:
1.
The parcel is at least thirty (30) acres for a second dwelling unit and forty-five (45) acres for a third dwelling unit;
2.
The parcel was assessed as agricultural in the most recent county assessment;
3.
Each additional dwelling unit shall meet water quantity and quality standards pursuant to section 70-4;
4.
Each additional dwelling unit shall meet the on-site wastewater treatment system standards pursuant to section 70-3;
5.
Each additional dwelling unit shall meet driveway standards pursuant to chapter 74;
6.
If a central water or sewer system is proposed, written documentation from the water or sewer provider that the system has capacity to adequately handle the additional dwelling unit's increased usage.
B.
General second dwelling unit. One (1) second dwelling unit on one (1) residential parcel may be approved pursuant to a director determination if sufficient written documentation is submitted and supports the following requirements:
1.
The second dwelling unit will share the same electrical meter, water source, on-site wastewater treatment system, and access as the primary dwelling unit;
2.
The livable floor area of the second dwelling unit does not exceed the size of the primary dwelling unit or two thousand (2,000) square feet, whichever is less;
3.
The second dwelling unit shall meet water standards pursuant to section 70-4; including but not limited to  quantity and quality;
4.
The second dwelling unit shall meet the on-site wastewater treatment system standards pursuant to section 70-3;
5.
The second dwelling unit shall meet driveway standards pursuant to chapter 74;
6.
If a central water or sewer system is proposed, written documentation from the water or sewer provider that the system has capacity to adequately handle the second dwelling unit's increased usage.
C.
Other standards do not apply. Although the general approval criteria set forth in section 66-16 shall apply, applications for director determinations for second and third dwelling units submitted pursuant to this subsection III shall not be required to meet additional standards in this code generally applicable to other developments requiring an administrative land use permit.
IV.
Administrative land use permit.
One (1) second dwelling unit on one (1) parcel may be approved pursuant to an administrative land use permit if not eligible for a director determination and the parcel is at least six (6) acres or more. Applications for an administrative land use permit for second dwelling units submitted pursuant to this subsection shall meet all standards applicable to other developments requiring an administrative land use permit.
V.
Minor land use permit.
A second or third dwelling unit on one (1) parcel may be approved pursuant to a minor land use permit if not eligible for a director determination or an administrative land use permit. Applications for a minor land use permit for second or third dwelling units submitted pursuant to this subsection shall meet all standards applicable to other developments requiring a minor land use permit.
VI.
Major land use permit.
Adding a fourth or more dwelling units on one (1) parcel shall require a major land use permit. An application for a major land use permit for additional dwelling units pursuant to this subsection shall comply with the standards and submittal requirements applicable to other developments requiring major land use permit as set forth in section 66-7 and shall follow the applicable process established in section 66-21.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-3, 09/15/2020; Res. No. 2022-01, § 73-3, 01/04/2022
)
Effective on: 1/4/2022