Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 1: Fire Impact Fee for Durango Fire Protection District
Sec. 44-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division 1, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory structure.
For purposes of this division, a new structure that is accessory to and incidental to that of a dwelling and that is located on the same lot.  By way of example, but not limitation, an accessory structure would include an attached or detached garage.
Applicant.
Any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, limited liability company, government, group, entity or organization who applies for a building permit.
Building.
Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use of occupancy under the IRC or the IBC.
District.
The Durango Fire Protection District.
District capital improvement plan.
The list of capital facilities identified in the district impact fee study.
District impact fee study.
The written documentation dated August 2022 that demonstrates that the impact fees do not exceed the proportional fair share of the costs of capital facilities attributable to new development.  This study may be amended from time to time by the district.
District service area
. For purposes of this division 1, the areas of unincorporated La Plata County that are within the service boundaries of the district, as amended from time to time.  The map included as Figure 44-2.1 is a general depiction of such area. However, a determination as to whether new development is within the district service area, shall be made by reference to the La Plata County Assessor’s records pertaining to inclusion of real properties within the district pursuant to C.R.S. § 32-1-401.
Figure 44-2.1
Dwelling unit
. A single unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
Fire impact fee schedule.
The current fee schedule specifying the impact fees payable by new development, as adopted by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners and revised thereafter pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, but, in any case, not exceeding the maximum fees calculated in the most recent district impact fee study.
International building code
or
IBC
. The International Building Code, as modified and adopted by the county in chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code.
International residential code
or
IRC
.  The International Residential Code, as modified and adopted by the county in chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code.
New development.
Any proposed
residential or non-residential
building or structure for which a building permit application is required and received.
Non-residential development
.  New development subject to the IBC that is not otherwise included in the definition of residential development under this division.  The term includes, but is not limited to, agricultural buildings that require a building permit.
Residential development
. (1) N
ew development of dwelling units subject to the IRC; (2) new development classified for use and occupancy under the IBC as Residential Group R-2 for which there are more than two dwelling units where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature; or (3) new development classified for use and occupancy under the IBC as Residential Group R-3 for which there are dwelling units where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature.  The term does not include accessory structures.
(
Res. No.
2022-19
, §  10/11/2022
)
Effective on: 10/11/2022