Chapter 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-2. Definitions and rules of construction.
In the
construction
of this
Code
, and of all ordinances or resolutions, the following rules
shall
be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
board of county commissioners
:
Board of county commissioners. The term board of county commissioners shall mean and refer to the "Board of County Commissioners of La Plata
County
, Colorado."
Code. The word "Code" shall mean the Code of La Plata County, Colorado.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall not be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall be counted. If the last day of any period is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, as legal holiday is defined in C.R.S. § 24-11-101(1), the period is extended to include the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, unless state law provides otherwise, in which case such state law will control. If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends on the last day of that month.
State Law reference—
Similar provisions, C.R.S. § 2-4-108.
County. The term "county" shall mean the County of La Plata, Colorado.
County
commissioner
.
The term "county commissioner" shall mean a member of the La Plata County Board of County Commissioners.
C.R.S. The abbreviation "C.R.S." shall refer to the Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a
department
or some other county officer or employee to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify otherwise.
Gender. A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender shall extend and be applied to both the masculine and feminine genders, and to firms, partnerships and corporations.
Highway. The term "highway" shall include any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass or causeway in the county dedicated or devoted to public
use
.
Keeper and
proprietor.
The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include
persons
, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent
or employee.
Number.
A word importing the singular
may
extend and be applied to the plural, and vice versa.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officer, department, employee,
board
, committee, commission, etc. Whenever reference is made to an officer, department, employee, board, committee, commission, etc., it shall be deemed to refer to an officer, department, board, committee, commission, etc., of La Plata County, Colorado.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner
. The word "owner," applied to a
building
or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Property. The word "property" shall include real, personal and mixed property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any place subject to the primary control of any public agency, including but not limited to any
park
, street, public way, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The word "state" shall mean the State of Colorado.
Street. The word "street" shall embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
(Res. No. 1997-61, 10-14-1997)
Effective on: 10/14/1997