CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-26 Permit adjustments and modifications
I.
Applicability.
A.
​​​​​​Permit modifications. Unless qualifying for a permit adjustment pursuant to paragraph 66-26.I.B. below, no use or development authorized pursuant to this code shall be altered, changed, or otherwise modified unless a new land use permit is obtained.
B.
Permit adjustments. The director may make adjustments to an approved land use permit to provide expeditious relief to a permitee when an insubstantial change to a permit can solve a practical difficulty, assure compliance with applicable state or federal laws, or implement a permitee’s changed intentions for a permitted development. The director may issue a director determination letter to grant adjustments to approved permits. Adjustments permitted and prohibited by this section are outlined below.
1.
Permitted adjustments. The director may grant an adjustment in one of any of the following circumstances:
a.
Reconfiguration of parking areas resulting in no net loss of required spaces;
b.
Minor deviations to roadway alignments;
c.
Decreases in density;
d.
Increased compliance with any voluntary guidelines;
e.
An increase in approved building height of not more than ten (10) percent than originally approved;
f.
An increase in the approved gross floor area of not more than ten (10) percent than originally approved as calculated on a total project basis;
g.
An increase in traffic of not more than ten (10) percent than originally approved or eight (8) ADT as calculated on a total project basis, whichever is less;
h.
An increase in water usage of not more than ten (10) percent than originally approved or three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day as calculated on a total project basis, whichever is less;
i.
With respect to an on-site wastewater treatment system, an increase in water treatment of not more than ten (10) percent than originally approved or three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day as calculated on a total project basis, whichever is less as may be needed for an amendment to a preexisting permit or new permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, or LPCPH under the On-Site Wastewater Treatment System Act, C.R.S. § 25-10-101 et seq. or the Colorado Water Quality Control Act, C.R.S. § 25-8-101 et seq.
2.
Prohibited adjustments. In no circumstances shall the director grant adjustments that result in the following:
a.
A change in the permitted use or mix of uses except when such change of use meets the criteria for a use review;
b.
An increase in density;
c.
A reduction in open space;
d.
A change to a condition of approval to a land use permit which received final approval from any decision-making body other than the director;
e.
Any adjustment that would violate a specific standard of this code;
f.
Any adjustment if the same permit has already received the maximum permitted adjustment.
II.
Procedures.
Permit adjustments shall follow the general procedure for a director determination pursuant to section 66-17.
III.
Approval criteria
. In addition to the general approval criteria for a
director determination
outlined in section 66-16, permit adjustments shall be subject to following additional approval criteria:
A.
The proposed adjustment is a minor change to a permit and is solving a practical difficulty or implementing the permitee’s changed intentions for a permitted development.
B.
The adjusted development has no potential to cause new or increased adverse impacts when compared to the original development.
C.
The proposed adjustment is not being used to avoid compliance with applicable standards.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-26, 09/15/2020; Res. No.
2023-27
, § 66-26, 11/21/2023
)
Effective on: 1/1/2024