Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Sec. 69-17 Financial guarantee
I.
Financia
l guarantee may be required. Before any
permit
is issued, the
board
may, at its discretion, require the
applicant
to file a guarantee of financial security deemed adequate by the board and payable to the
county
. The purpose of the financial guarantee is to assure:
A.
Full performance of the requirements of the permit
and applicable regulations
;
B.
The
project
or activity is completed and, if applicable, the
project area
is properly reclaimed​​​​​​
;
C.
The applicant
performs all
mitigation
requirements and permit
conditions in connection with the construction, operation and termination of the project
​​​​​​
;
D.
Increases in public facilities and services necessitated by the construction, operation and termination of the project
are borne by the permittee.​​​​​​
;
E.
Shortfalls to county
revenues are offset in the event the project
is suspended, curtailed or abandoned.
II.
Amount of financial guarantee. In determining the amount of the financial guarantee, the board
shall consider the following factors:
A.
The estimated cost of completing the project
and, if applicable, of returning the project area
to its original condition or to a condition acceptable to the county
​​​​​​
;
B.
The estimated cost of performing all mitigation
requirements and permit
conditions in connection with the construction, operation, and termination of the project
, including:
1.
The estimated cost of providing all
public services
necessitated by the proposed project until two (2) years after the proposed project ceases to operate.​​​​​​
;
2.
The estimated cost of providing all
public facilities
necessitated by the proposed project until all such costs are fully paid.
III.
Estimate. Estimated costs shall be based on the applicant's
submitted cost estimate plus the board's
estimate of the additional cost to the county
of bringing in personnel and equipment to accomplish any unperformed purpose of the financial guarantee. The board shall consider the duration of the project
and compute a reasonable projection of increases due to inflation. The board may require, as a condition of the permit
, that the financial security be adjusted upon receipt of bids to perform the requirements of the permit and this chapter.
IV.
Form of financial guarantee.​​​​​​​
A.
The financial guarantee may be in the form of cash, federally-insured certificates of deposit, irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank acceptable to the board
, or any other form, or combination of forms, established by the board.​​​​​​​
B.
At least ten
(10)
percent of the amount of the financial guarantee must be in cash deposited with the county’s treasurer and placed in an earmarked account.​​​​​​​
V.
Release of guarantee. The financial guarantee shall be released when:​​​​​​​
A.
The permit
has been surrendered to the board
before commencement of any physical activity on the site of the permitted project
.​​​​​​​
B.
The project
has been abandoned and either the site has been returned to its original condition or to a condition acceptable to the county
.​​​​​​​
C.
The project
has been satisfactorily completed.​​​​​​​
D.
A phase or phases of the project
have been satisfactorily completed allowing for partial release of the financial guarantee consistent with project phasing and as determined appropriate by the
director
; or​​​​​​​
E.
The applicable guaranteed conditions have been satisfied.​​​​​​​
VI.
Cancellation of financial guarantee. Any financial guarantee may be canceled only upon the board's
written consent which may be granted only when such cancellation will not detract from the purposes of the security.​​​​​​​
VII.
Forfeiture of financial guarantee.​​​​​​​
A.
If the board
determines that a financial guarantee should be forfeited because of any violation of the permit
,  mitigation
requirements, conditions or any applicable regulations adopted by the board, it shall provide written notice to the surety and the permittee that the financial guarantee will be forfeited unless the
permittee
makes written demand to the board, within ten (10) business days after
permittee’s receipt of notice, requesting a
hearing
before the board. If no demand is made by the permittee
within said period, then the board shall order the financial guarantee forfeited.​​​​​​​
B.
The board
shall hold a hearing
within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the demand by the permittee. At the hearing, the
permittee
may present for the consideration of the board statements, documents, and other information with respect to the alleged violation. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board shall either withdraw the notice of violation or enter an order forfeiting the financial guarantee.​​​​​​​
C.
The deposit described above may b
e used by the county in the event of the default or alleged default of the permit holder, only for the purposes of recovering on the surety or fulfilling the permit obligation of the permit holder. In the event a court determines that there has not been a default by the permit holder, that portion of any moneys expended by the county from the deposit funds relating to such default shall be replaced to the account by the board immediately following such determination. Funds shall be disbursed out of the account to the county upon the board’s demand for the purpose specified in this section.​​​​​​​
D.
If the forfeiture results in inadequate revenue to cover the costs of accomplishing the purposes of the financial guarantee, the County Attorney’s Office shall take such steps as deemed proper to recover such costs where recovery is deemed possible, including costs and attorney’s fees.​​​​​​​
VIII.
Substitute of financial guarantee. If the license to do business in Colorado of any business issuing or holding a financial guarantee pursuant to this
c
hapter is suspended or revoked by any state authority, then the applicant shall immediately, after receiving notice thereof, substitute a good and sufficient financial guarantee from a business licensed to do business in Colorado. Upon failure of the permittee to make substitution within the time allowed, the board shall suspend the permit and/or take such other enforcement action until proper substitution has been made.​​​​​​​
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-17, 10/01/2019
​​​​​​​)
Effective on: 1/1/1901