Chapter 38 PUBLIC PLACES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Aviation, ch. 14; roads and bridges, ch. 42; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54; vegetation, ch. 58; natural resources, ch. 90; land
use
laws for public property, ch. 94; zoning, ch. 106.
ARTICLE I. PUBLIC USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—Ordinance No. 2025-01, adopted February 11, 2025, deleted Article I of Chapter 38 in its entirety and replaced the provisions contained within Ordinance No. 2025-01 from those of Res. Nos. 2014-17 and 2018-02, and Ord. Nos. 2022-01 and 2024-01 as the current provisions regarding use of county property.
Sec. 38-3 Freedom of speech or expression activities.
Consistent with federal law, the county maintains the ability to regulate freedom of expression/expressive activity (e.g., protest, speech, solicitation, assembly, petition gathering, pamphleting, posting signs and other materials, etc.) on county property with reasonable time, place and manner restrictions, which includes the designation of public forums, where public assemblies and other expressive activities are allowed:
I.
Traditional public forums. The following properties are designated as public forums for freedom of speech and/or expression activities. These properties have traditionally been used for purposes of assembly, communicating thoughts between members of the public and discussing public questions:
A.
The sidewalk and lawn abutting E. 2nd Avenue of the La Plata County Courthouse, 1060 E. 2nd Avenue, Durango, Colorado, when the activity is not intended to interfere with or impede justice or to influence a judge, juror or court officer.
B.
The sidewalks on the east side of the County Administration Building, 1101 E. 2nd Avenue, Durango, Colorado.
II.
Limited public forums. The following property is designated as a limited public forum, where access is limited to certain classes or types of speech (i.e., these forums are open only to particular categories of speakers or only speakers on a particular topic):
A.
Board room of the County Administration Building, 1101 E. 2nd Avenue, Durango, Colorado. Access is limited to individuals with official business at public meetings held in the conference room.
B.
Conference room in the Sheriff’s Office Administration Building, 283 Girard Street, Durango, Colorado. Access is limited to individuals with official business at public meetings held in the conference room.
C.
Certain portions of the grounds at the La Plata County Fairgrounds, 2500 Main Avenue, Durango, Colorado. Access to designated portions of the Fairgrounds is limited to the purposes of signature gathering and assembly for peaceful protests or demonstrations related to proposed or actual ballot issues and questions to be posed to voters. Such portions shall be designated as necessary by signage depending upon the nature of the event.
D.
Parking lot directly across, and east, of the Assessor, Clerk, and Treasurer Building (“ACT Building”). The designated parking lot is located at 720 Turner Drive, Durango, Colorado. Access to the lot is limited to the purposes of signature gathering and assembly for peaceful protests or demonstrations related to proposed or actual ballot issues and questions to be posed to voters.
E.
The board may, from time to time, designate particular places on any county property or in any facility for the installation and use of limited public use bulletin boards for public communication. Limited public use bulletin boards shall be marked as such. Within such designated space, the public may post written matter of a public or community nature such as notices of information, upcoming events, availability of public or community resources, or activities of public or community interest, subject to the following rules:
1.
Commercial advertising of products or services is prohibited from any limited public use bulletin board and may be removed at any time.
2.
Written material that is obscene, or harassing or discriminatory based on race, sex, religion, gender identity or gender expression, age, or other legally recognized protected class, or which threatens or causes imminent violence or breach of the peace, or which threatens to disrupt the efficient operation of a county property for official public business, is prohibited from being posted and, if posted, may be removed at any time, without notice, by designated county employees.
3.
Any written material permitted to be posted on any limited public use bulletin board may remain posted for a reasonable time, after which it may be removed at the sole discretion of the responsible department.
4.
La Plata County is not responsible for the removal, destruction, or alteration of any written material posted on limited public use bulletin boards or any other place on any county property.
III.
Non-public forums. All other county properties are not public forums for First Amendment activities. Both the interiors and exteriors of county property and facilities, other than those otherwise designated in this section, are not open to the public for purposes of free speech expression, assembly, or petition, and are expressly reserved solely for the functioning of county government and furtherance of county purposes as determined by the board or another county elected official with respect to that elected official’s office.
A.
Signs, banners, lights or other material affixed to or projected against the walls or surfaces of county facilities or structures, other than those approved by the manager for official government business, are prohibited.
B.
Except as otherwise provided in this code, no portion of any county property or facility is open for the posting of written material by anyone for any purpose other than official government business by an elected official, employee or other authorized individual, and any such written material may be removed without notice. No written material of any kind may be posted by members of the public anywhere in or on county property, including but not limited to: the doors, windows, bulletin boards, walls, ballot boxes, or other permanent or moveable fixture of such county property.
IV.
Limitations on freedom of expression. Regardless of the type of forum, freedom of speech and expression activities on county property and at or in county facilities may not:
A.
Harass or threaten any person;
B.
Interfere with the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
C.
Impede, disrupt, obstruct, or hinder a public officials’ and employees' performance of their duties or any meetings or functions carried out by the same;
D.
Use any sound-amplifying device at an unreasonable volume or in a manner that disturbs the peace, or interferes with the rights of others;
E.
Create an imminent safety, security or health hazard;
F.
Interfere with any other lawful activity by anyone in the same general location at the same time;
G.
Include electioneering activities, political rallies and/or partisan political functions within 100 feet of any voting center or ballot drop-off location at any time twenty-two (22) days prior to an election or at any time during the day of an election; or
H.
Be commercial in nature.
Ord. No.
2025-01
, §  02/11/2025
Effective on: 2/14/2025