Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE IV. - TRANSFERS OF 06CW99 WATER RIGHT INCREMENTS
Sec. 94-47. - Water use agreements.
Transferring
increments
to
water users
shall be conditioned on the water user executing a
water use agreement
in a form prescribed by the
county
and approved by the county attorney. The planning
director
shall be authorized to sign water use agreements on behalf of the county. At a minimum, the water use agreement shall contain provisions addressing the following:
Increment type and use. The type of increment and how increments shall be used.
Water amount. The allowable total annual
depletions
and maximum instantaneous depletions for each increment.
Water user to apply for
absolute water right
decree. The water user shall apply for and obtain court decrees making all increments absolute water rights within five years of the date both the county and the water user execute the water use agreement, except that the
board of county commissioners
may, in its sole discretion, amend the water use agreement and extend the five-year term upon petition by the water user.
Contact information change. The water user shall notify the county if for any reason there is a change in the water user's name, address, phone number, or email address.
Diligence reports. The water user shall report to the planning director what actions were taken to diligently pursue the use of the full amount of the water user's increment. Such reports will be on a form provided by the planning director in October of every even number year. Failure to submit such reports to the planning director within 20
business days
shall be grounds for the county to terminate the water use agreement pursuant to subsection
94-52
(I).
The county to apply for diligence filing. The county shall apply to the appropriate water court for findings of reasonable diligence as required by the 06CW99 Court Decree.
Consent to enter. The water user shall consent to county officials, personnel, agents, and consultants entering during normal business hours any property owned or leased by the water user for purposes of inspecting and documenting the actual use of increments and any diversions or conveyance structures associated with the use of the increments. Or, if the water user is not the owner or lessor of the property or is otherwise not authorized to consent to county officials, personnel, agents, and consultants entering the property, the water user shall be responsible for securing authorization from the property owner for county officials, personnel, agents, and consultants, to enter the property during normal business hours. If entry is ever denied by the water user or the property owner, the water user shall consent to the county terminating the water use agreement pursuant to subsection
94-52
(I) or exercising its right of entry pursuant to subsection
94-52
(II).
Measuring devises. The water user shall install and maintain measuring devices or other structures and shall maintain records of diversion as may be required by state water administration officials.
Abide by 06CW99 Court Decree and
application
criteria; survival. The water user's use of increments shall be specifically conditioned upon the water user abiding by the water use agreement, this article, and the 06CW99 Court Decree, and these conditions shall be binding on the water user's heirs, personal and legal representatives and successors in interest, as well as survive the water use agreement's expiration due to the water user obtaining a deed for the increments.
(Res. No. 2012-35, § 1(Exh. A), 8-28-2012, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017