CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-29 Conceptual development plans
I.
Purpose and applicability.
A conceptual development plan is designed to accommodate the needs of applicants proposing multi-phased projects. The intent of a CDP is to allow early review of the phasing of a proposed major development. A CDP is required for any major land use permit or major subdivision project where the proposed development or subdivision will be accomplished in multiple phases unless a phasing plan is approved as part of a sketch plan. A CDP shall be submitted prior to or concurrently with the preliminary plan or plat of the first phase of the project. The CDP procedure also ensures that each phase of a multi-phased project contains the facilities and improvements that are necessary to serve the development.
A CDP is a generalized plan that illustrates the amount and types of uses, densities, and proposed vehicle and pedestrian circulation systems within and leading to the proposed development site. Approval of a CDP results in a generalized land use plan for the area proposed to be developed. However, approval of a CDP does not result in final planning approval for the proposed property, and grading, building, and construction permits may not be issued based on an approved CDP. Because the CDP only requires the applicant to prepare conceptual mitigation measures for design or engineering documents, submittal requirements for a CDP shall not constitute an application for purposes of vested rights (section 66-13) or C.R.S. § 24-68-101 et seq.
II.
Procedures for review of conceptual development plan.
Figure 66-29 below identifies the application steps that apply to the review of conceptual development plan.
III.
Approval criteria.
All applications for a CDP shall be reviewed for general consistency with the general approval criteria stated in section 66-16, but not for detailed compliance with development standards referenced in such criteria. The review for general consistency shall include a review of the applicant’s concepts for mitigating potential effects expected to be produced by the proposed development in relationship to the general approval criteria. For example, proof of adequate water, sewer and access shall not be necessary; however, the application shall provide mitigation measures which could be utilized to offset expected demands and impacts based on the proposed uses such as documenting the available capacity of central water or sewer providers, the availability of well permits or describing how road improvements will be provided based on the condition of existing access.
IV.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicants proposing a CDP shall also submit the following:
A.
A conceptual development plan drawing on one (1) or more sheets illustrating the entire development, conceptual in nature, and at a minimum, including the following information prepared by qualified professionals with experience in land use, transportation, and utility planning and engineering:
1.
Uses proposed;
2.
Intensity or density of uses proposed;
3.
Proposed arrangement of lots;
4.
Location of open space;
5.
Location of existing and proposed buildings on the site;
6.
Road, street, drainage and pedestrian facilities existing and proposed;
7.
Existing or proposed utilities for the development;
8.
The proposed development phases.
B.
A phasing plan consisting of a written description of each of the proposed phases indicating the type of development and the infrastructure improvements necessary for each phase. This may be included as part of the narrative for the project application.
C.
Mitigation concepts for mitigating potential adverse effects produced by the proposed development. These concepts shall be illustrated on the plan drawing(s) or described in writing, or both. The written description may be included as part of the narrative for the project application.
V.
Effect of approval.
A.
Not a site specific development plan. An approved CDP does not constitute a "site specific development plan".
B.
Effect of approval. Approval of a CDP indicates those aspects of the proposed development shown on the plan are generally approved, subject, however, to subsequent consideration and review of a major subdivision or permit for all or a portion of the property, in one (1) or more phases, including conforming to all applicable development standards adopted by the county at the time such subsequent application is submitted.
C.
Lapse of CDP approval. An approved CDP shall lapse and be of no further force and effect if an application for subdivision or development of at least the first phase of the CDP has not been submitted within three (3) years of the CDP approval, unless otherwise specified by the county in its approval of the CDP or phasing plan. Provided such application is submitted within the applicable time period, the term of approval for the remainder of property subject to the CDP shall be extended for an additional three (3) years or as otherwise specified in the approved phasing plan. If the CDP lapses, a new CDP shall be required prior to future development of the subject parcel. Such new CDP shall be processed according to the procedures of this section. Adjustments or modifications to the CDP do not affect the original approval period, unless otherwise provided.
VI.
Modifications to an approved CDP
. Unless qualifying for a permit adjustment pursuant to section 66-26, no CDP shall be altered, changed, or otherwise modified except through the approval of a new CDP application. An applicant shall apply for an amendment to an approved CDP prior to the submittal of applications to commence development of any phase, or prior to the submittal of a preliminary plat, where the proposed phase of development or plat does not conform to the approved CDP.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-28, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020