Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE II PROCUREMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
County
procurements
must be authorized and supported by available and
budgeted
funds. To ensure that these and other procurement criteria are delegated and satisfied, responsibilities of various individuals are defined in this article II.
Sec. 20-21 The Board of County Commissioners
I.
Authority to procure goods and services
. The Board of County Commissioners (the “BOCC”) is authorized to make all
contracts
necessary to exercise the county’s corporate and administrative powers and to establish policies and procedures regarding entering into such contracts. C.R.S. §§ 30-11-101 and 30-11-103. Through its policies and procedures, the
BOCC
may, as it does in this code, set forth standards by which to delegate its power to bind the county. C.R.S. § 30-11-107(1)(aa). Generally, the BOCC authorizes the following:
A.
The BOCC retains sole authority to execute and enter into contracts on behalf of the county when the contract is for an amount over two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) and to make
awards
to a
vendor
other than the lowest price quote when the
procurement
is in an amount of more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
B.
Each
elected official
and department head is authorized to procure
goods
or
services
with a
contract
requirement of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less when the expenditure is authorized in an approved
budget
and
small purchase
standards set forth in article III are followed.
C.
The procurement division is authorized to procure (that is,
solicit
and enter into contracts for) goods or services with a contract requirement of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less when the expenditure is authorized in an approved budget and the small purchase or
simplified purchase
standards set forth in article III are followed.
D.
The procurement division, together with the individual(s) delegated signature authority in accordance with the county’s Fiscal Management Policy No. III.4, as amended, are authorized to procure goods and services with a contract requirement of fifty thousand one dollars ($50,001.00) up to two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) when the expenditure is authorized in an approved budget and the
standard purchase
procedures outlined in article III are followed.
Specific authority for other procurement functions and
contract amendments
and
change orders
are set forth throughout this code.
II.
Contract approval.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, BOCC approval is required prior to:
A.
Award of any
contract amendment
or
change order
that exceeds the delegated signature authority in accordance with the county’s Fiscal Management Policy No. III 4, as amended.
B.
Award of any contract for the purchase of goods or services not funded in the budget.
III.
Quarterly report.
In addition to the standard purchase approvals that shall be brought to the BOCC for consideration and approval prior to award, the finance director shall provide a quarterly report to the county manager of relevant procurement activities. The contents of this report will be determined by the county manager but may include such categories as: all open solicitations, a list of all
vendors
with more than one open contract with the county, all open sole source contracts, all open emergency contracts, and all simplified purchases made within the preceding quarter.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-21, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021