Chapter 6 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Fermented malt beverages, C.R.S. § 12-46-101 et seq.; Colorado liquor
code
, C.R.S. § 12-47-101 et seq.
Sec. 6-5 Permits
I.
Bed and breakfast permit
. Upon application, the local licensing authority will consider the issuance of a bed and breakfast permit to an applicant who is operating a facility with no more than twenty (20) sleeping rooms and offers complimentary alcohol beverages for consumption on the premises by overnight guests.
A.
Public notice
. Public notice of the proposed permit and of the procedure for protesting issuance of the permit shall be conspicuously posted at the proposed location for at least ten (10) days before approval of the initial permit by the local licensing authority.
B.
Protest
. Any protest shall be filed by affected persons located within one half (1/2) mile of the proposed location within ten (10) days after the date of initial posting or the proposed approval. Protests shall be filed with the licensing coordinator.
C.
Fingerprints
. Applicants are not required to provide fingerprints.
D.
Public health authority inspections
. Applicants are not required to complete an inspection from the local public health authority.
II.
Tastings
. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-301(10) and La Plata County Resolution 2013-22, La Plata County authorizes licensed retail liquor stores and liquor-licensed drug stores to submit applications for alcohol beverage tastings within the county. The county elects not to impose additional limitations on such tastings beyond those limitations set forth in C.R.S. § 44-3-101
et. seq
. as may be amended. A licensed retail liquor store or liquor-licensed drugstore that wishes to conduct tastings shall submit an application for a tasting permit to the licensing coordinator. The local licensing authority may reject the application if the applicant fails to establish that the licensee is able to conduct tastings without violating any of the provisions of C.R.S. § 44-3-301(10), as may be amended, or creating a public safety risk to the neighborhood.
III.
Special event permit
. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-5-101
et. seq
., as may be amended, La Plata County elects not to require applicants seeking a special event permit to obtain a state special event permit. Applicants seeking a special event permit shall make application to La Plata County no less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the special event, and pursuant to the requirements set forth in C.R.S. § 44-5-101 et. seq., as may be amended, and any applicable regulations or rules adopted in relation to special event permits. The local licensing authority may reject an application for a special event permit if the application fails to meet the requirements set forth in statute, rule or regulation.
IV.
Optional premises permit
. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-310(1), and La Plata County Resolution 1990-45, La Plata County authorizes the issuance of optional premises permits.
A.
Size of premises
. There is no restriction on the minimum size of the outdoor sports and recreational facility which may be eligible for a related optional premises license; however, the local licensing authority may consider the site of the particular outdoor sports and recreational facility when considering the number of optional premise permits.
B.
Application requirements
.
1.
A detailed drawing or map indicating the locations requested to be optional premises. Indicate which optional premises will be permanent and any that will be temporary or used only for specific periods of less than one year.
2.
The proposed locations of the permanent, temporary and movable structures or vehicles which are proposed to be used for the sale or service of alcoholic beverages. If the applicant is requesting approval of more than one optional premise, the following shall be provided:
a.
An explanation of the reason and need for each optional premises request.
b.
An explanation of how the optional premises relate to each other from an operational standpoint.
c.
An explanation of the need for each optional premises; and
d.
If any optional premises are temporary or only used for specific periods, indicate the dates, times and circumstances which will govern their usage.
3.
Detailed procedures, restrictions, controls and guidelines to be utilized to ensure compliance with state and local regulations.
4.
A description of the methods, including an explanation of compliance with the provisions of the Colorado Liquor Code prohibiting sale to minors, which will be used to identify and control the optional premises when in use. (e.g., the type of signs, fencing, notices or barriers to be used in order to control the optional premises).
5.
Details for the provisions for the storage of malt, vinous and spirituous liquors in a secure area on or off the optional premises.
6.
If the applicant does not own the proposed optional premises, the property owner shall submit a written approval for the application sought.
V.
Takeout and delivery permit
. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-911, La Plata County requires any licensee who provides customers an alcoholic beverage for consumption off the licensed premises as part of a takeout order to obtain a local and state permit. Any licensee applying for a takeout or delivery permit must demonstrate that they have the ability to comply with any requirement imposed by C.R.S. § 44-3-911, as may be amended, and any regulations promulgated pursuant to the alcoholic beverage code, as may be amended. The local licensing authority may reject the application if the applicant fails to establish that the licensee is able to provide takeout or delivery services in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations that govern takeout and delivery services, or that the takeout or delivery service creates a public safety risk.
(
Res. No. 2021-08, § 6-5, 03/09/2021
)
Effective on: 3/9/2021