Chapter 100 SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Sec. 100-3. Contents of service plan.
Statutory submittal requirements. The service plan
shall
contain the following elements as required by C.R.S. § 32-1-202(2):
A description of the proposed services;
A financial plan showing how the proposed services are to be financed, including the proposed operating revenue derived from property taxes for the first budget year of the district, which shall not be materially exceeded except as authorized pursuant to C.R.S. § 32-1-207 or C.R.S. § 29-1-302. All proposed indebtedness for the district shall be displayed together with a schedule indicating the year or years in which the debt is scheduled to be issued;
A preliminary engineering or architectural survey showing how the proposed services are to be provided;
A map of the proposed special district boundaries;
An estimate of the population and valuation for assessment of the proposed special district;
A general description of the
facilities
to be constructed and the standards of such
construction
, including a statement of how the facility and service standards of the proposed special district are compatible with facility and service standards of any
county
within which all or any portion of the proposed special district is to be located, and of municipalities and special districts which are interested parties pursuant to C.R.S. § 32-1-204(1);
A general description of the estimated cost of acquiring land, engineering services, legal services, administrative services, initial proposed indebtedness and estimated proposed maximum interest rates and discounts, and other major expenses related to the organization and initial operation of the district;
A description of any arrangement or proposed agreement with any political
subdivision
for the performance of any services between the proposed special district and such other political subdivision, and, if a form contract is available, it shall be attached to the service plan;
Information, along with other evidence presented at the hearing, satisfactory to establish that each of the criteria set forth in C.R.S. § 32-1-203 is met, if applicable, (see subsection 100-3(II)); and
Such additional information as the
BOCC
may
require by resolution on which to base its findings pursuant to C.R.S. § 32-1-203.
Additional submittal requirements. Unless waived by the
director
, the service plan shall include the following additional information, which shall assist the BOCC in determining whether each of the criteria set forth in C.R.S. § 32-1-203 are met, if applicable:
Description of the district. The service plan shall include an explanation of the proposed services and a discussion of the criteria, such as build-out rate or market conditions, which would be used to determine when and if certain services are to be supplied.
Long term operational and financing plan. All figures used in the financial plan shall be in current dollars. The long term operational and financing plan shall contain, but is not limited to:
A letter from the
person
or organization responsible for the financial plan attesting to the financial and economic presentation and identifying sources and methods used in estimating interest rates, build-out rates, mill levy, and other data included in the plan;
A pro-forma presentation of all projected expenses to be incurred and revenues to be generated by the proposed special district showing the year-end financial status of the district for each year from the organization of the district until the repayment of all proposed debt. The pro forma shall include a detailed description of all funding mechanisms to be employed by the special district. The pro forma shall list individual yearly totals for debt, debt service, operating and maintenance expenses, legal and administrative expenses, capital expenses, build-out rate, assessed valuation, mill levy, facility fees, other fees, and all other costs and revenues. Any extraordinary or one-time expenses shall be explained, and the assumptions upon which such figures are based shall be set forth;
Maximum bonded indebtedness proposed to be incurred by the special district and justification for that amount of indebtedness. If phasing of bonding is to be used, the phases and efforts at coordination shall be explained. Because the issuance of bonds by one entity may adversely affect the bond rating of another entity due to overlapping debt, the plan shall contain a list of bonded indebtedness for all cities, counties, and special districts within which the proposed special district will be included;
A detailed schedule of any other anticipated debt financing;
The amount of any reserve fund and the expected level of annual debt service coverage that will be maintained for any financing;
A description of the scheduling and phasing of capital
improvements
and their relationship to the financial stability of the special district. A long term capital improvement program may be required with a five-year time horizon;
If the financial plan identifies any contributions by the
developer
to the special district, any agreement or proposed agreement between the developer and the proposed special district explaining the developer's financial participation shall be included;
If the financial plan identifies any agreements concerning taxation or financing between or among the special district and other special districts, then a description of such agreements and copies of such agreements shall be included and a narrative shall be provided that establishes how such agreements satisfy the statutory criteria for formation of a special districts;
A description of the flexibility that has been built into the financial plan, including alternative means of repaying the debt, if the estimated revenue stream is not realized;
A list of mill levies and other fees for special districts supplying similar services for a similar market located in the region;
The maximum mill levy proposed by the special district;
The average and maximum total of all mill levies that are currently imposed on property within the proposed special district;
A list and written explanation of the potential risks of the district financing;
A list of items that will be purchased or leased from the developer/
applicant
(e.g. land, rights of way, water rights, etc);
Plans to mitigate any shortfalls in the district's ability to meet financial obligations;
A description of the proposed administrative
structure
of the special district demonstrating the ability of the special district to meet the administrative requirements of Colorado budget and audit requirements;
Existing or pending financial difficulties of the applicant, if it is a legal entity, including insolvency, bankruptcy or foreclosure proceedings;
Background information on the developer/applicant and financial relationships between property
owners
, developer/applicant and the district;
If another entity is providing some or all of the services contemplated by the proposed special district, a detailed gap analysis that compares existing services to those of the proposed special district, a detailed explanation of the identified inadequacies of the existing service to meet present and projected needs and the manner in which such needs will be met by the proposed special district;
Evidence of commitment from a qualified lender or investment banking firm to sell bonds or provide other financing indicated in the plan; and
Any other information as may reasonably be requested by the county.
Map of the proposed district. There shall be included in the service plan a map of the proposed district and the surrounding area with the following:
A vicinity map, showing the district boundaries, section lines, existing and proposed roads, and jurisdictional boundaries of tribal lands, all municipalities and other special districts within a three-mile radius of the proposed special district, and
A
site
plan, showing the district boundaries, any current improvements, the proposed improvements, and any
development
currently built or planned to be built within the special district. The sheet size of the site plan shall be 18" vertical by 24" horizontal with a scale of 1" = 200' or other scale as approved by
staff
.
The map(s) shall be legible, shall contain explanatory legends, titles and text. Accompanying the map(s) shall be a list of the services proposed to be supplied by the special district that are provided by each of the municipalities and special districts shown on the map.
A complete description of any facilities to be constructed. Detailed descriptions and cost estimates for all the facilities and improvements shall be included. All materials and labor costs for each planned facility shall be estimated at that time of construction and the facilities shall be shown to be compatible with the standards of the county and each interested party as defined in C.R.S. § 32-1-204(1).
Service agreements. The applicant shall provide a copy of any signed, proposed, or promised service agreements relating to the proposed or existing services between the special district and any municipality, other special district, or other existing or proposed service provider and shall contact all service providers in a three-mile radius by certified mail in a form to be approved by planning staff.
Additional information.
An explanation of the proposed special district's policy for inclusion, which shall provide objective procedures for the determination of costs, standards and criteria to allow the orderly extension of services to developable adjacent lands;
A list of the persons or organizations responsible for each section of the service plan, including the name and telephone numbers of the
engineer
, the legal counsel, the developer, and the financial analyst;
A legal description of the area to be included in the proposed special district;
A list of all persons, corporations, and other private or public entities involved in the formation of the special district and an explanation of the role played by each of those involved, and a discussion of the entities' previous work in the county or the region related to special district and land development;
A list of owners of real property within and adjacent to the special district and their current address;
A sunset clause to address dissolution of the district in the event that development activity ceases or the district fails to provide services. Such clause shall make reference to statutorily prescribed dissolution procedures and any such dissolution procedures that would be carried out accordingly;
Specificity regarding what is to be considered a "material modification" as described in C.R.S. § 32-1-207(2);
If applicable, provide evidence that the proposal is in compliance with any duly adopted county, tribal, regional, state or federal long-range water quality
management plan
for the area (C.R.S. § 32-1-203(2.5)(d).
If applicable, provide plans for water acquisition and water system development, specifically addressing water rights issues;
If applicable, describe the status of required tribal, state and/or local reviews of wastewater treatment; and
If applicable, information on water and wastewater tap fees, user fees, availability of service fees, plant investment fees and other charges.
(Res. No. 2010-21, § 1(Exh. A), 4-20-2010, Res. No. 2016-1)
Effective on: 4/20/2010