CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-19 Sketch plan
I.
Purpose
. A sketch plan provides an opportunity for the county, the applicant, and the public to evaluate and discuss the basic design, concept and suitability of the project and to consider if the project is capable of substantially complying with this code and in general conformance with the comprehensive plan. Where appropriate, the sketch plan process may also examine alternative approaches to development of the property. Typically, a proposal will evolve during sketch plan review. To encourage the consideration of alternatives where appropriate and to allow the sketch plan to evolve, detailed engineering plans and other overly detailed information shall not be required nor accepted by the county. A sketch plan may be an optional or required step in some land use permit and development processes.
II.
Common procedures.
Figure 66-19 below identifies the application steps that apply to the review of a sketch plan.
III.
Approval criteria.
All sketch plans shall be reviewed for general consistency with the general approval criteria stated in section 66-16, but not for detailed compliance with development standards referenced in such criteria. The review for general consistency shall include a review of the applicant’s concepts for mitigating potential effects expected to be produced by the proposed development in relationship to the general approval criteria. The application may also be subject to additional approval criteria specific to the type of application.
IV.
Sketch plan review and considerations.
At sketch plan, the decision-making body shall determine whether the proposed sketch plan substantially complies with this code and is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan. The decision-making body shall consider matters such as, but not limited to, the following:
A.
The types of use;
B.
The general locations intended for development and the areas planned to remain undeveloped, including open space;
C.
The general plan for phasing of the development and any infrastructure or other improvements;
D.
The general alignment for access;
E.
The provision of an adequate water supply and whether the water supply and sewage disposal will be provided through on-site water and wastewater treatment systems or through connection to public systems;
F.
Compatibility with the natural environment and the way natural hazards will not be increased as a result of the development;
G.
Compatibility with the existing uses of adjacent properties and other lands that may be significantly impacted.
V.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicants proposing a sketch plan shall submit the following:
A.
A sketch plan drawing on one (1) or more sheets illustrating the entire development. Detailed engineering plans and other detailed information shall not be required nor accepted by the county. The sketch plan shall be conceptual in nature and, at a minimum, include the following information:
1.
Uses proposed;
2.
Intensity or density of uses proposed;
3.
Proposed arrangement of lots;
4.
Location of open space;
5.
Location of existing and proposed buildings on the site;
6.
Conceptual layout of road, street, utilities, drainage and pedestrian facilities existing and proposed.
7.
The proposed development phases.
B.
If phasing is proposed, a phasing plan consisting of a written description of each of the proposed phases indicating the type of development and the infrastructure improvements necessary for each phase. This may be included as part of the narrative for the project application.
C.
Mitigation concepts for mitigating potential adverse effects produced by the proposed development. These concepts shall be illustrated on the plan drawing(s) or described in writing, or both. The written description may be included as part of the narrative for the project application.
VI.
Sketch plan outcome.
The outcome of sketch plan review should be an identification of issues and concerns the applicant must address for the project to be considered ripe for review by the decision-making body.
VII.
Effect of approval of sketch plan.
A.
Limitation on approval. Approval of a sketch plan shall authorize the applicant to submit to the CDD an application for a minor land use permit or in the case of a major land use permit, a preliminary plan. It shall not constitute final approval. Sketch plan approval vests no development rights.
B.
Expiration of approval. Approval of the sketch plan shall be null and void and automatically revoked unless, within one (1) year after the date of approval of the sketch plan, an application for a minor land use permit or in the case of a major land use permit, a preliminary plan is submitted to the CDD and deemed complete by the director.
C.
Extension of sketch plan approval. One (1) extension of time up to one (1) year may be approved by the director upon written request with good cause shown or due to unforeseen circumstances. The owner shall submit a written request for extension to the CDD no later than thirty (30) days prior to the date the sketch plan is set to expire.
VIII.
Modification of an approved sketch plan.
An approved sketch plan shall not be materially altered, changed or otherwise modified except through the approval of a new sketch plan application. An applicant shall apply for an amendment to an approved sketch plan prior to submittal of an application for any land use permit requiring sketch plan approval. If, in the course of staff’s compliance review of a land use permit requiring sketch plan approval, the director determines the preliminary plan or plat is no longer materially consistent with the approved sketch plan, the director shall notify the applicant in writing. If the applicant fails to amend the approved sketch plan, the application may be subject to remand by the board to the planning commission pursuant to section 66-16.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-19, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020