Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-3 Major subdivisions
I.
Applicability.
The major subdivision procedures shall be applicable to all land divisions into four (4) or more lots.
II.
Overview of necessary applications.
A major subdivision is subject to a sketch plan review by the PC and a preliminary plat review by the board, followed by the administrative review of the final plat. Each step is a distinct process involving the submittal of an application, an application fee, required plans and reports, referrals of the proposal to other agencies, staff analysis and public hearings. At each step of the process, the design and engineering detail increases in order to relieve the applicant from major and potentially unnecessary expenses in situations that may require a redesign and a revision of expensive engineering or planning reports. A general description of these steps is outlined below. Approval at any step in the process does not ensure approval at the next step.
Figure 67-3 A: Overview of Major Subdivision Procedures provides an overview of the application steps that apply to the review major land use permits.
III.
Preliminary plat procedures.
Figure 67-3 B: Summary of Preliminary Plat Procedures identifies the application steps that apply to the review of a preliminary plat.
IV.
Requirements for phased development.
A.
Preliminary plats consistent with phasing plans. Review and approval of a phasing plan in conjunction with a sketch plan or conceptual development plan shall be required for any subdivision proposed in phases. Each preliminary plat shall be consistent with the phasing plan approved under such sketch plan or conceptual development plan.
B.
Phased final plats. The preliminary plat may provide for phasing of final plat approvals as determined by the director based upon consideration of the design, size, and complexity of the subdivision and associated improvements. Such phasing of the final plats shall not require the prior approval of a sketch plan or conceptual development plan; however, it shall require a phasing plan be submitted and approved as part of the preliminary plat application. The locations and schedule of phases shall be clearly stated and indicated on the plat and in supporting documentation. The improvements and drainage plans and specifications shall also address in detail the subdivision improvements to be constructed and completed in association with each phase.
V.
Effect of approval.
A.
No vested rights. Preliminary plats shall not be construed to be site specific development plans.
B.
Preliminary plat approval period. Preliminary plat approval is valid for one (1) year after approval by the board. An approved preliminary plat shall be of no further force and effect if the final plat application for the subdivision is not submitted within one (1) year of the date of the preliminary plat's approval by the decision-making body.
C.
Approval period for preliminary plat for phased final plats. If the approved preliminary plat provides for phasing of final plats, and a final plat application for any phase of a subdivision is not submitted within the time specified in the approved phasing plan, then the preliminary plat approval shall be of no further force or effect. For phased subdivisions, an approved final plat for any phase of the preliminary plat shall extend the life of the remaining preliminary plat according to the approved phasing plan, or if not specified in an approved phasing plan, for an additional one (1) year from the date the final plat is approved. If successive final plats are not submitted within this one (1) year period, or within the period specified in an approved phasing plan, then the preliminary plat approval shall be of no further force or effect for those portions of the subject property not covered by an approved final plat.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 67-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020