Chapter 80: Enforcement and Penalties
Sec. 80-3 Types of violations
The following shall be a violation of this code and subject to the remedies and penalties set forth in this chapter and Colorado law:
I.
Activities without permit or approval
. To erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, maintain, move or use any building, structure, improvement or other facility or to otherwise establish, maintain or engage in any use, development, subdivision or other activity of any nature upon real property that is subject to this code without all the approvals required by this code.
II.
Activities inconsistent with this code
. To erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, maintain, move or use any real property, building, structure, improvement or other facility or to otherwise engage or fail to engage in any use, development, subdivision or other activity of any nature upon real property that is subject to this code in contravention of any zoning, subdivision or other regulation of this code.
III.
Activities inconsistent with permit, approval or condition
. To erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, maintain, move or use any building, structure, improvement or other facility or to otherwise engage or fail to engage in any use, construction, reconstruction, remodeling, development, subdivision or other activity of any nature upon real property that is subject to this code that is inconsistent with the terms, conditions or qualifications of any permit, approval, certificate or other form of authorization required in order to engage in such activity.
IV.
Make setbacks or minimum lot or acreage size for an existing use nonconforming
. To reduce or diminish any area so the applicable setbacks or minimum lot or acreage size are less than the distance or size prescribed by this code.
V.
Increase intensity of use
. To increase the intensity of use of any real property, building, structure, improvement or other facility, except in accordance with the procedural requirements and substantive standards of this code.
VI.
Subdivision violations
. Those violations set forth in section 80-7 related to the subdivision of real property.
VII.
Remove or deface required notice
. To remove, deface, obscure or otherwise interfere with any notice required by this code or a condition of approval.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 80-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020