Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 6. COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS BOARD
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Community
corrections
board
, C.R.S. § 17-27-103.
Sec. 2-218. Composition.
The La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall consist of twelve (12) members and four (4) alternates who shall meet at least quarterly. The membership of such La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall be
comprised of the following representatives (or their designees) appointed by the La Plata County Board of County Commissioners:
To the extent possible, the governing body shall appoint, at its discretion, individuals to serve on the La Plata County Community Corrections Board who represent our ethnic and regional diversity within La Plata County and who are employed by or are members of the following community and/or constituent groups:
I.
Chief Probation Officer of the 6th Judicial District, or their designee
A.
Chief Probation Officer’s named alternate
II.
La Plata County Sheriff, or their designee
A.
La Plata County Sheriff’s named alternate
III.
Public Defender of the 6th Judicial District, or their designee
A.
Public Defender’s named alternate
IV.
The 6th Judicial District Attorney, or their designee
A.
The 6th Judicial District Attorney’s named alternate
V.
A current employee of the State of Colorado Department of Corrections, or their designee
VI.
The Archuleta County Sheriff or their designee
VII.
The 6th Judicial District Chief Judge or their designee
VIII.
A member of the community with a finance or accounting background
IX.
A member of the community who has experience as a mental health/substance abuse treatment provider
X.
A representative from a local business with preference to a business who has employed community corrections clients in the past
XI.
A member of the criminal defense bar in the 6th Judicial District
XII.
A member of the community who represents the victim advocacy community, such as Alternative Horizons, Sexual Assault Services Organization, Rise Above Violence, or a similar organization
XIII.
Up to three members selected from a cross-section of the general citizenry.
A.
While the community corrections program is in a facility on City of Durango-owned land, one of these positions will be offered to the Chief of Police or their Alternate.
If any board member, who may also be represented on the board by a designee or their alternate, cannot attend any meeting of the Community Corrections Board, or a meeting of a Community Corrections subcommittee, may appoint a designee to attend in lieu of the appointed board member or alternate. A designee must be employed by the same agency as the board member who designates them to represent the board member at the meeting.
The La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall meet at least quarterly to attend to La Plata County Community Corrections Board business.
The La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall create a subcommittee, the La Plata County Community Corrections Board Screening Committee (Screening Committee), to meet at least one time per month to review offender cases referred for placement in this program with the authority to accept, defer or reject anyone for placement that is determined to be a risk to the public or the program. The Screening Committee should have at least five, but not more than eight representatives selected from the La Plata County Community Corrections Board.  The recommended make-up of the screening committee should include:
I.
A member of the community who is a mental health/substance abuse treatment provider.
II.
Up to two members selected from a cross-section of general citizenry or the representative from a local business.
III.
A member of the criminal defense bar in the 6
th
Judicial District.
The La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall adopt bylaws no later than December 31, 2021 which shall be subject to acceptance by the La Plata County Board of County
Commissioners, to be reviewed at least every five (5) years thereafter.
The La Plata County Community Corrections Board shall adopt a decision-making tool for use by the Screening Committee no later than December 31, 2021.
(Res. No. 1987-46, § 3, 5-26-1987; Res. No. 1999-10, § 2(a), 3-8-99;
Res. No. 2021-12, § 2-218, 04/20/2021; Res. No. 2022-12, § 2-218, 04/12/2022
)
Effective on: 4/12/2022