Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-17 Landscaping and buffering
I.
Purpose.
Landscaping and buffers are used to reduce the external impacts a land use might have on adjacent properties, especially when neighboring land uses are of a different type or intensity than the subject use. Where used, landscaping and buffers provide visual barriers between different land uses, enhance the streetscape and public views, provide privacy, and protect uses from wind, dust, noise, traffic, glare, visual impact and harmful or noxious effects.
II.
Applicability.
The following types of development shall install and maintain landscaping and buffers in accordance with the standards in this section:
A.
Any development that requires a minor land use permit or major land use permit;
B.
Any development that includes a parking lot or a parking area adjacent to a public or private road;
C.
Any development that requires an administrative land use permit within an economic development area; and
D.
Any other development required to use landscaping or other buffers as a condition of approval to satisfy compatibility or otherwise mitigate adverse effects.
III.
Buffer materials and specifications
. Where required, buffers shall consist of landscaping, rocks, boulders, mounds, fences or walls, berms, or a combination of these techniques. In the case of commercial, multi-family or industrial development, fences are acceptable where space or the land use does not lend itself to a more natural buffer.
A.
Xeriscaping or low water usage is recommended for all development subject to this section. Developments that have access to raw water rights are encouraged to utilize raw water systems to accommodate landscape irrigation needs.
B.
If irrigation water is to be made available in a development, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to install an acceptable delivery system. The irrigation system shall be constructed and subject to the terms and conditions of other public improvements in the development.
C.
Landscaped berms or integrated rock walls shall be at least two (2) feet high and appear natural. Berms shall have a gentle transition to surrounding grade and shall not exceed a 3:1 side slope.
D.
Landscaped berms shall install plant species that are currently known to survive in the county. Existing native vegetation and trees may be used to comply with the buffer plant material specifications, provided the existing vegetation and trees are located where they can achieve the same intent and purpose of the buffer. Plant materials as listed on the most current noxious plant material list adopted by the board shall not be allowed. A list of recommended and prohibited plant materials may be obtained from the County Weed Control Technician.
1.
Tree plantings shall consist of at least fifty (50) percent coniferous species in order to provide year-round buffering.
2.
Coniferous trees shall be at minimum six (6) feet in height. Deciduous trees shall have a minimum two (2) inch caliper. All trees shall include protective fencing.
3.
At minimum, one-gallon (#5) container shrubs shall be installed along landscaped berms.
E.
For every fifty (50) linear feet of required buffering along each property line, the following plants shall be used at a minimum:
1.
One (1) deciduous or coniferous tree;
2.
One (1) understory tree; and
3.
One (1) shrub.
F.
A waiver to the above paragraphs III.D or C may be requested from the director to provide an alternative type of buffering where circumstances warrant site specific considerations.
G.
All proposed landscaping or buffers must allow for compliance with snow removal and traffic-related sight-distance requirements, as reviewed and confirmed by the planning engineer.
IV.
Guarantees and maintenance.
Maintenance of landscaping, buffering and irrigation shall be the responsibility of the developer or landowner, and shall be performed regularly so that the intent and integrity of the approved landscaping is preserved, and noxious weeds are kept under control. Trees shall be staked and protected from damage upon planting and provision made by the developer or landowner for regular watering and maintenance until they are established. The developer or landowner shall replace dead and dying plants or trees no later than the following planting season and ensure continuous compliance with an approved weed control plan.
A.
Landscaping areas that cannot naturally be provided with adequate moisture for the types of plants to be installed shall be equipped with an irrigation system or other approved method.
B.
Applicants will warrant all buffers and other landscaping for one (1) year from the time of installation to guarantee the establishment of plant materials in the buffer. In addition, applicants shall provide a performance guarantee in an amount sufficient to cover the replacement cost of the plant materials and in a form acceptable to the county. The director may waive the performance guarantee if a permanent irrigation system is in place or installed. The guarantee shall, upon written request to the director, be released after inspection satisfactory to the director, but no sooner than one (1) year from the date of installation. Landscaping that does not survive within the initial year shall be replaced within three (3) months after it perishes, unless the date is not during a planting season, in which case it shall be replaced during the first month of the planting season. The replacement vegetation shall be similar in size, type and amount of the vegetation that perished. If landscaping perishes within the first year, the applicant may be required to warranty the replacement landscaping for one (1) year from the time of replacement installation to again guarantee the establishment of plant materials. The replacement process and associated warranty may continue for a successive period as necessary to ensure survival of the plant material.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 70-17, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020