Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 2: Road Impact Fees
Sec. 44-26 Deposit of impact fees into a restricted account.
I.
Establishment of accounts.
Impact fee funds collected shall be deposited in an interest-bearing account which clearly identifies the purpose for which the fee was imposed.  All interest earned or money deposited to the account shall be credited to and shall be considered funds of the account. The county shall establish appropriate accounting procedures and controls to ensure that the road impact fee funds are properly deposited, accounted for and appropriated in accordance with the requirements of this division and other legal requirements applicable to impact fees.
II.
Appropriation of road impact fee funds.
Impact fee funds may only be appropriated for road improvement costs for
county road improvements
identified in the
road improvement plan
, or for the payment of principal, interest and other financing costs on contracts, bonds, notes or other obligations issued by or on behalf of the county to finance such costs for county road improvements identified in the road improvement plan.  The county may enter into an agreement with one or more municipalities to use road impact fees collected from
new development
in the
unincorporated
area to fund, wholly or partially, eligible county road improvements identified in the road improvement plan and located within the municipal boundaries.
III.
Restrictions on appropriations.
A.
Road impact fee funds shall only be appropriated for county road improvements identified in the road improvement plan.
B.
Impact fees shall be appropriated within ten (10) years of the beginning of the county
fiscal year
immediately succeeding the date of impact fee collection, unless such period is extended. An extension may be approved if the appropriation is for a county road improvement provided in the road improvement plan that requires more than ten (10) years to plan, design and construct and the demand for such county road improvement is generated in whole or in part by the new development or the county road improvement will serve the development.  Impact fee funds will be deemed to be appropriated in the order they were received.
C.
Impact fees may not be appropriated or used for personnel, operations, maintenance or repair of county roads.
Res. No.
2024-31
, §  08/27/2024
Effective on: 8/27/2024