Chapter 68 Planned Unit Developments
Sec. 68-7 Applicable standards
I.
Established code standards.
The development allowed within a PUD shall not exceed the level that can be adequately served by public facilities and services, including without limitation water, sanitation and fire protection. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the PUD preliminary plan, PUD guide, plats and all aspects of the PUD development shall comply with all applicable standards stated in this code, including without limitation, the standards stated in chapters 70-74.
II.
Recreation and open space requirements
. Portions of the PUD area should be devoted to open air recreation or other usable open space, public or quasi-public. Parking and loading areas, road rights-of-way and areas with slopes greater than thirty (30) percent shall not count toward usable open space. Water bodies, lands within critical wildlife areas, riparian areas and one hundred (100) year floodplains that are preserved as open space shall count towards the minimum standard, even when they are not usable by or accessible to the residents of the PUD. All other open space lands shall be conveniently accessible from all occupied structures within the PUD.
III.
Other standards
. The director and the PC shall have the authority to recommend that otherwise applicable standards in this code such as density, setbacks, height restrictions, land dedications and related requirements be waived or modified by the board. The board may waive or modify applicable standards as part of the approval of a PUD, if the board finds each of the following:
A.
The modification is in general conformity with the comprehensive plan.
B.
The applicant has demonstrated the modification is necessary to achieve the purposes of a PUD as set forth in this chapter and the extent of the modification has a direct and proportional relationship to the magnitude of the public benefit that is obtained.
C.
The waiver or modification furthers the objectives of these PUD regulations.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 68-7, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020