Chapter 74: Road and Bridge Standards and Permits
Sec. 74-1 General provisions
I.
Purpose
. The purpose of this chapter is to ensure uniform, safe and adequate access to public roads and to ensure the development and use of real property does not create demand for public improvements and services that cannot be met with existing public resources. Safe and adequate access exists when traffic volumes do not exceed the capacity of the road; when operating conditions on the road and at intersections do not fall below the specified level of service; and when pavement sections and structures can accommodate projected traffic.
II.
Applicability.
In addition to establishing requirements for the planning, design, construction and improvement of transportation facilities by land use permit applicants, the requirements contained in this chapter apply to all proposed uses and development within unincorporated areas of the county and to new transportation facilities planned, designed and constructed by the county; except:
A.
Development where no land use permit is required pursuant to section 66-3; provided, however, that all driveways shall comply with standards as noted in section 74-8 and subdivisions in which all lots are greater than thirty-five (35) acres shall comply with standards as noted in section 74-6;
B.
Additional dwelling units pursuant to section 73-3 that require a director determination; provided, however, that additional dwelling units may be subject to the applicability of driveway standards in 74-8;
C.
Lot consolidations
,
boundary adjustments
and
plat
amendments unless the changes to the
plat
create an
adverse impact
to new or existing roads;
D.
Temporary uses approved pursuant to section 66-6;
E.
Accessory uses approved pursuant to sections 66-5 and 66-6;
F.
Development in the joint planning area pursuant to section 72-2;
G.
Special events which are addressed in chapter 42 or 73-20 of the La Plata County Code;
H.
Asphalt overlays, resurfacing of existing roads and related maintenance activities;
I.
Reconstruction of existing county roads and bridges by the county;
J.
AgPlus uses, however, all driveways shall comply with standards as noted in section 74-8; and
K.
Telecommunication facilities.
III.
Road design publications
. In addressing the requirements of this chapter, horizontal and vertical alignment and other design data shall substantially conform to the latest addition of AASHTO’s A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets and, for minor local roads and low ADT roads, AASHTO’s Guidelines for Geometric Design. Designers are also expected to reference CDOT’s design manuals, this chapter and other documents, such as the comprehensive plan, the La Plata County Fire Code, International Fire Code and guidance documents published by the applicable local fire district.
IV.
Construction quality and materials
. All materials and construction required by this chapter shall comply with CDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
V.
Traffic control plans and devices
. All traffic control devices, road striping, signs, markers, delineators and signalization shall be in accordance with the latest version of the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highways Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices or as shown in the latest version of CDOT’s M&S Standard Plans. A traffic control plan is required for all work on or within a county right-of-way. The plan shall conform to the standards set forth in the MUTCD. Traffic control plans shall be submitted to the public works director for approval no less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the performance of any work.
VI.
Professional qualifications and judgment.
All road, right-of-way and drainage designs required by this chapter shall be prepared under the supervision of a professional engineer. Unless waived by the planning engineer or public works director, traffic analyses and construction plans shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer. Because these standards cannot provide for all situations, the standards set forth in this chapter assist, but do not substitute for, competent work by design professionals. Design professionals shall consider all available information and use professional judgment to propose a final design. The public works director or planning engineer will evaluate proposed designs that depart from the requirements outlined in this chapter on the likelihood that such deviation will produce compensating or comparable results, adequate for the road uses and the welfare of the general public. The public works director or planning engineer will be the final authority resolving questions of fact in connection with standards for road construction not directly covered by this chapter.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 74-1, 09/15/2020; Res. No. 2022-01, § 74-1, 01/04/2022
)
Effective on: 1/4/2022