CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-17 Director determination procedures
I.
Applicability.
Section 66-4 establishes the types of development or matters that are subject to a director determination. The director or public works director shall also utilize director determination letters when required by specific sections of this code, and shall utilize director determination letters to approve all waivers as contemplated by specific sections of this code. The director or public works director may also utilize director determination letters to formalize any decision regarding applicability or compliance of the application or matter with the standards of this code. When clarification is requested, the director or public works director, in their discretion, shall be authorized to make written interpretations concerning this code. Legal interpretations made by the county attorney are not director determinations or subject to appeal.
II.
Common procedures.
Figure 66-17 below identifies the application steps that apply to the review of a director determination application.
Figure 66-17: Summary of Director Determination Procedures
Effective on: 10/1/2020