Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE IV - SPECIFICATIONS AND SCOPES OF WORK
As discussed in article III, all
simplified
,
standard
, and
sole source purchases
begin with written
specifications
or a written
scope of work
(“SoW”). The importance of these documents to the quality of the
procurement process
, the eventual
contract
and, most important, the final result cannot be overstated.
Sec. 20-42 Scope of work
A S
oW
is a written description of the required
goods
or
service
s stated in terms of the result to be achieved.
I.
Purpose of a SoW
. The purpose of a SoW is to provide potential
vendors
with a clear, accurate, and complete description of the work to be performed, including: inspections, testing and acceptance, quality requirements, support services, critical time line definitions, data and documentation desired, maintenance and other necessary requirements.
II.
Elements of a SoW
. Every SoW should be expressly tailored for each specific purchase. There are, however, several common elements that should be addressed in every SoW whenever applicable:
A.
The work
. Describe the work sought, including any work plan, required deliverables, milestones, performance standards and due dates.
B.
Period of performance
. List the start and end date for the entire project as well as any other scheduling requirements.
C.
Physical location
. Identify or describe where the work will be performed. If the place of performance is at a specific address, identify it.
D.
Supplies and equipment.
List the
supplies
and equipment that will be required, used, or provided.
E.
Payment rate
. Identify how the payment rate for the good or service will be determined; for example, by job, month, day or hour.
F.
Acceptance criteria
. State the criteria the county representative(s) will use to determine if the product or service is acceptable.
G.
Special requirements
. Identify any special requirements that are required to successfully perform or complete the work, including, for example, any anticipated or allowable price increase over the term of the contract, any special hardware or software, specific degrees or certifications, travel requirements, delivery expectations, or any other need not covered by the contract that are necessary to the success of the project.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-42, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021