Chapter 34 FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Contents:
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS
ARTICLE III. AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2015 EDITION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1(Exh. A), adopted March 16, 2010, repealed and reenacted chapter 34 in its entirety to read as herein set out, with the exception of provisions enacted by Ord. No. 1994-2A (former § 34-66), which has been redesignated as section 34-1 at the direction of the city in Supplement No. 13 of this
Code
. Formerly, chapter 34 pertained to similar subject matter,and derived from Ord. No. 1998-1, §§ 1—10, 12, adopted September 6, 1988
Cross reference—
Fire code adoption
and revision commission, § 2-361 et seq.;
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18;
emergency
services, ch.
26
State Law reference—
Ordinance regarding false fire alarms, C.R.S. § 30-15-401.5; authority to adopt resolutions regarding extinguishing campfires, C.R.S. § 30-15-201 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Contents:
Sec. 34-1. Open Fire Bans.
Secs. 34-2—34-30. Reserved.
Sec. 34-1. Open Fire Bans.
I.
P
urpose and Scope.
Unincorporated areas of the county have been identified as possessing a significant risk of wildland fires and many of these areas are along the wildland-urban interface where there is an increased risk of wildfires spreading from wildland vegetation to developed areas. Catastrophic wildfires take a large economic toll on the community through property losses, decreased tourism, suppression costs and increased insurance premiums. Furthermore, wildland fires pose a risk to human life, particularly where existing residential communities are located within heavily wooded areas and have limited ingress/egress roadways, or inadequate roadways to accommodate safe and effective evacuations. Fire restrictions help agencies and the community reduce fire risk and prevent fires during periods of high or extreme fire danger.
II.
Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases have the accompanying meanings when used in this code.
Agricultural burn. Either a controlled agricultural burn or controlled ditch burn conducted by an agricultural producer.
Agricultural producer. Agricultural producer shall be defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(n.5)(III).
Chimney spark arrestor. A device which prevents the emission of flammable debris from leaving a fireplace, or a wood or coal burning stove.
Controlled ditch burn. Controlled ditch burn shall be defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 24-33.5-1211(3.4).
Federal lands. Lands that are owned by the federal government.
Fireworks. Fireworks shall be defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 24-33.5-2001(5)(a).
Incendiary device. Any device designed to start fires.
Operating plan. The most current La Plata County operating plan prepared pursuant to the Colorado Statewide Cooperative Wildland Fire Management and Stafford Act Response Agreement for the State of Colorado.
Red flag warnings. Formal warnings publicly issued by the National Weather Service when warm temperatures, very low humidity and strong winds are expected to combine to produce an increased risk of fire danger.
Sky lantern. An unmanned luminary device, including sky lanterns, fire balloons, acetylene balloons or similar devices made of paper, fabric, plastic, or any other material, that traps heated air produced by an attached heat source that lofts the device.
Tribal trust lands. Land that has been set aside for the exclusive use and benefit of a tribe but is owned by the United States in trust for a tribe.
Wildland fire. An unplanned or unwanted fire in a wildland area, including unauthorized human-caused fires, out of control prescribed fires and all other fires in wildland areas where the objective is to extinguish the fire.  C.R.S. § 29-22.5-102(10).
Wildland-urban interface area. That geographical area where structures and other human development meets or intermingles with wildland or vegetative fuels.
III.
Roles and responsibilities.
A.
Sheriff as fire warden.  The sheriff is the fire warden for the county and the individual ultimately responsible for controlling and extinguishing wildfires in the unincorporated area of the county and wildfires occurring within a fire district that exceed the capabilities of a fire protection district.  C.R.S. § 29-22-103(2)(a).  The sheriff is also responsible for preserving the peace within the county.  C.R.S. § 30-10-516.
B.
Board of County Commissioners.  The Board of County Commissioners cooperates with other counties and with the state forester in the organization and training of rural fire fighting groups, payment for the operation and maintenance of firefighting equipment and in sharing the cost of suppressing fires.  C.R.S. § 30-11-107(1)(o).  The board may also adopt an ordinance banning open fires within those portions of the unincorporated areas of the county where the danger of wildfire is high.  C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(n.5).
C.
Fire department/fire protection district.  The chief of a fire department in each fire protection district in the county is responsible for the management of wildland fires that occur within the district and that are within the capability of the district to control or extinguish.  C.R.S. § 29-22.5-103(1)(a).
IV.
Banned devices.
The use or release of a sky lantern into the airspace of La Plata County is prohibited.
V.
Declaration of fire restrictions.
The board, the sheriff or the sheriff’s designee, upon competent evidence of high fire danger, is authorized to declare by resolution, fire restrictions or the rescission of fire restrictions, in all or portions of the unincorporated areas of the county.  Such fire restrictions shall pertain to any activity that produces or maintains, or attempts to produce or maintain, a spark, flame or any known ignition sources for open fires and may include a prohibition on the use and sale of fireworks. Adoption of a resolution shall occur after consultation with and upon the recommendation of the local fire chiefs and the fire management officers of local federal agencies.  The recommendations of such agencies shall be based upon the criteria for adopting or downgrading fire restrictions or closures set forth in the operating plan.  Resolutions imposing fire restrictions shall include an express finding that fire danger is high and the parameters of the fire restrictions are deemed necessary and appropriate.
VI.
Automatic fire restrictions.
The board finds that red flag warnings, as designated by the National Weather Service, are competent evidence that fire danger is high and that wildland fires may quickly spread out of control.  Subject to the exemptions set forth in section 43-1(VII) and provided neither stage 2 nor stage 3 restrictions are already in place, during such times of high fire danger and for the duration of the red flag warning, the stage 1 restrictions set forth in the operating plan, shall automatically apply without further action by the board or the sheriff.
VII.
Exemptions.
A.
The following activities are exempt from the fire restrictions imposed in this code:
1.
The use of an open fire or equipment by any federal, state or local officer or member of an organized rescue or firefighting force in the performance of an official duty.
2.
The use of an open fire or equipment necessary for the emergency repair of public utilities.
3.
Fires permitted by the sheriff or, with prior notice to and consent of the sheriff, a local fire chief operating within such fire chief’s jurisdiction, if, in such fire chief’s professional opinion, such action is appropriate, safe and prudent.
4.
Agricultural burns by agricultural producers so long as the agricultural producer has obtained prior approval of the fire chief within whose jurisdiction the agricultural burn will take place or the sheriff.
5.
Smoking within an enclosed vehicle, trailer or building.  Smoking in a developed recreation site, or while stopped in an area that is at least three (3) feet in diameter that is barren or cleared of all flammable vegetation.
6.
Indoor fireplaces and indoor wood-burning stoves with an approved interior and exterior chimney spark arrestor.
B.
Federal and tribal trust lands within the unincorporated areas of the county are exempt from all fire restrictions imposed under this code.
VIII.
No waiver of statutory authority
.  Nothing in this chapter is or shall be a waiver by the county, the sheriff or any fire district of any statutory or common law authority including without limitation the authority identified in C.R.S. § 24-33.5-709 relating to local disaster emergencies.
IX.
Enforcement and penalties.
It is unlawful for any person to violate declared fire restrictions and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense, seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for a second offense and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a third and subsequent offense, in addition to any restitution, as defined in C.R.S. § 18-1.3-602(3), including but not limited to the costs of fire suppression or property damage caused by the violation.  The penalty assessment procedure provided in C.R.S. § 16-2-201 shall be followed by any authorized enforcement officer and the graduated fine schedule set forth herein shall be followed when issuing any summons or complaint in accordance with such procedure.  Inaction or lack of enforcement on the part of the county or a fire district shall not constitute a waiver of the right of enforcement.
X.
Citation authority.
Enforcement of, and citation for, violation of the provisions of this section may be pursuant to the provision of C.R.S. § 30-15-410, and, in addition thereto, authorized officer from each fire protection district within La Plata County shall also have authority to enforce, and cite for, violations of this section.
(Ord. No. 1994-2, § 1, 5-20-1996;
Ord. No. 2021-3, §  05/25/2021; Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 34-1 (Exh. C), 09/27/2022; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-1, 07/11/2023
;
Ord. No. 2021-3, §  05/25/2021; Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 34-1 (Exh. C), 09/27/2022; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-1, 07/11/2023
)
Effective on: 8/13/2023
Secs. 34-2—34-30. Reserved.
Effective on: 5/20/1996
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS
Contents:
Sec. 34-31. Adoption of International Fire Code.
Sec. 34-32. Definitions.
Sec. 34-33. Applicability of code and standards to farms or ranches.
Sec. 34-34. No private cause of action established.
Sec. 34-35. Contract for Fire Protection.
Sec. 34-31. Adoption of International Fire Code.
The volumes, parts, chapters and appendices of the International
Fire Code
2015 edition including Appendix Chapters B, C, D, and K, as published by the International
Code
Council, together with amendments,
additions
and deletions as set forth in article III below, are hereby adopted pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-15-401.5 as an ordinance applicable within the entire unincorporated area of La Plata
County
including those unincorporated areas of the county within the
jurisdiction
of Upper Pine River Fire Protection District, Los Pinos Fire Protection District, Fort Lewis Mesa Fire Protection District and Durango Fire Protection District.
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1 (Exh A), 03/06/2010; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-31, 07/11/2023
Effective on: 8/13/2023
Sec. 34-32. Definitions.
As defined below, the following terms
shall
apply to this chapter 34 and shall take precedence over any definition, expressed or otherwise, contained within the applicable provisions of the International
Fire Code
, 2015 edition. Words used in the present tense shall also include the future tense; words used in the singular shall also include the plural; the masculine shall also include the feminine.
Board of county commissioners
or board or BOCC shall refer to the Board of County Commissioners of La Plata County, Colorado.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Board of appeals
or
fire code board of appeals
or
BoA
shall refer to the La Plata County Fire Code Board of Appeals created by section 34-36-103 below. The fire code board of appeals is a distinct and separate entity from any entity created by chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code to hear and decide
appeals
relating to the
Building Code
.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Building code
or
La Plata County Building Code
shall refer to chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Building official
or La Plata County building official shall refer to the building official appointed by the La Plata County Manager pursuant to chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Chief
or
fire chief
shall refer to the chief officer of a fire department duly appointed by the respective board of directors, or a duly authorized representative.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Code official
or
fire code official
shall refer to the fire chief or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this code by the fire department, or a duly authorized representative.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Fire code
or
La Plata County Fire Code
or
County Fire Code
or this code shall refer to the International Fire Code 2015 edition as adopted in section 34-36-101, as amended in article III below.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Fire code adoption and revision commission
or
FCARC
shall refer to the fire code adoption and revision commission having been lawfully created by the
BoCC
pursuant to Colorado law.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Fire protection districts
or
fire departments
or
fire districts
shall refer collectively to any and all fire authorities, fire protection districts, and fire departments created pursuant to Colorado law and operating wholly or partially within La Plata
County
within whose boundaries the
fire code
applies.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Jurisdiction
, depending on the context, shall refer to La Plata County, any individual fire departments within whose boundaries the fire code applies, or any and all of the aforementioned entities.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Land use code
or L
a Plata County Land Use Code
shall have the same meaning as "code" set forth in section 62-5 of the La Plata County Code.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
Sec. 34-33. Applicability of code and standards to farms or ranches.
Pursuant to Colorado law, the
fire code
,
shall
not apply to farms or ranches located within the unincorporated area of the
county
. A property shall be considered to be a farm or ranch, for the purposes of this article, if it is classified as
agricultural
and so listed by the county assessor for tax purposes.
(
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1 (Exh A), 03/05/2010; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-33, 07/11/2023
)
Effective on: 8/13/2023
Sec. 34-34. No private cause of action established.
Notwithstanding the adoption of this
fire code
, the creation of the
FCARC
, the creation of the fire code
board of appeals
, the appointment of such
boards
and commissions as are designated in this fire code, and the enumeration in this fire code of certain duties and responsibilities of such officials, commissions and personnel, nothing in this article or any
code
, standard, regulation, protocol or procedure adopted pursuant hereto, or the enforcement or failure to enforce this article, or any rule, regulation, protocol, code or standard adopted pursuant hereto,
shall
be construed to relieve any
person
owning
buildings
,
structures
or property governed by this article, or any code, standard, rule, regulation or protocol adopted pursuant to this article, from full responsibility for compliance with and liability for any
violations
of this article, or any code, standard, rule, regulation or protocol adopted pursuant to this article. The adoption, enforcement or failure to enforce this article, and any code, rule, standard, procedure or protocol adopted pursuant hereto shall not be deemed to create any liability on the part of the
county
, its officers,
agents
, servants, employees, the county
fire code adoption
and revision commission, or the county fire code board of appeals, nor shall any cause of
action
or claim against such persons or entities be created hereby. In adopting this article, it is the intent of the
BoCC
to create a duty for the benefit of the public generally and not to create a remedy or benefit for any particular individuals or classes thereof.
(
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1 (Exh A), 03/04/2010; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-34, 07/11/2023
)
Effective on: 8/13/2023
Sec. 34-35. Contract for Fire Protection.
Pursuant to Colorado law, the
BoCC
may contract with an enforcement agency to provide fire protection and
fire code
enforcement in unincorporated areas of the
county
not within the
jurisdiction
of a fire
department
.
(
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1 (Exh A), 03/03/2010; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34-35, 07/11/2023
)
Effective on: 8/13/2023
ARTICLE III. AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2015 EDITION
Contents:
DIVISION 1. CHAPTER 1 OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2015 EDITION
DIVISION 2. ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2003 EDITION
DIVISION 1. CHAPTER 1 OF THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2015 EDITION
Contents:
Sec. 34-36. Chapter 1 of the International Fire Code, 2015 edition.
Sec. 34-36. Chapter 1 of the International Fire Code, 2015 edition.
Chapter 1 of the International
Fire Code
, 2015 edition, is hereby deleted and reenacted to read as follows:
Section 101
Scope and General Requirements
101.1 Title. These regulations, including the International Fire Code, 2015 edition as adopted and amended by La Plata
County
and this chapter 34 of the La Plata County
Code
, shall be known as the La Plata
County
Fire Code, hereinafter referred to as "this code" or the "fire code."
101.2 Scope. This code establishes regulations affecting or relating to
structures
, process,
premises
and safeguards regarding all of the following:
1.
The
hazard
of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or
use
of structures, materials or devices;
2.
Conditions hazardous to life, property or
public
welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises;
3.
Fire hazards in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or operation;
4.
Matters related to the
construction
, extension, repair,
alteration
or removal of fire suppression or alarm systems;
5.
Conditions affecting the safety of fire fighters and
emergency
responders during emergency operations.
101.2.1 Appendices. Provisions in Appendix Chapters B, C, D, and K of the International Fire Code, 2015 edition, shall apply as part of this code.
101.2.2 Date effective. This code shall take effect and be in full force thirty (30) days after publication pursuant to Colorado law. All prior fire codes previously adopted are hereby repealed and revoked in their entirety except to the extent necessary to enforce
violations
of such prior fire codes occurring before the
effective date
of the new version of this code.
101.3 Intent. The purpose of this code is to establish minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety, and general welfare in a manner consistent with nationally recognized good practice for providing a reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the hazards of fire, explosion or dangerous conditions in new and existing
buildings
, structures, and premises, and to provide a reasonable level of safety for fire fighters and
emergency
responders during emergency operations.
101.4 Severability and validity. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, declared invalid or becomes inoperative for any reason, such invalidity or failure shall not affect the validity of any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase, and it shall be presumed that this code would have been adopted without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
Section 102
Applicability
102.1 Construction and design provisions. The construction and design provision of this code shall apply to:
1.
Structures,
facilities
, and conditions arising after the adoption of this code.
2.
Existing structures, facilities, and conditions not legally in existence at the time of adoption of this code.
3.
Existing structures, facilities, and conditions when identified in specific sections of this code.
4.
Existing structures, facilities, and conditions that, in the opinion of the
code official
, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property.
102.1.1 Administrative, operational and maintenance provisions.  The administrative, operational and maintenance provisions of this code shall apply to:
1. Conditions and operations arising after the adoption of this code.
2. Existing conditions and operations.
102.2 Change of use or occupancy.  Changes shall not be made in the use or occupancy of any structure that would place the structure in a different division of the same group or occupancy or in a different group of occupancies, unless such structure is made to comply with the requirements of this code and the county’s
building code
.  Subject to the approval of the fire code official, the use or occupancy of an existing structure shall be allowed to be changed and the structure is allowed to be occupied for purposes in other groups without conforming to all of the requirements of this code and the county’s building code for those groups, provided the new or proposed use is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use.
102.3 Conflict with other codes. Should a conflict arise or exist between any fire code term or provision,
building code
term or provision, or
land use code
term or provision, or if any fire code, building code, or land use code term or provision imposes on any party irreconcilable duties or obligations, then the applicable building code or land use code term or provision shall apply. Should a conflict arise between a fire department and the La Plata County Building Department or the La Plata County
Community Development Department
regarding the interpretation of any fire code term or provision, the county attorney's interpretation of the applicable fire code term or provision shall apply. When any such conflicts arise, the county attorney shall send written notification documenting his or her interpretation of the appropriate fire code term or provision within a reasonable time to all of the fire departments and the Fire Code Adoption and Revision Commission. Determinations specifically delegated to be made at the discretion of a fire c
hief
shall not be subject to the county attorney's interpretation as provided herein.
102.3.1 Application of the building code. The design and construction of new structures shall comply with the county’s building code, and any alterations,
additions
, changes in use or changes in structures required by this code, which are within the scope of the county’s building code, shall be made in accordance therewith.
102.4 Historic buildings. The provisions of this code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local
jurisdiction
as historic buildings where such buildings or structures do not constitute a distinct hazard to life or property.  Fire protection in designated historic buildings shall be provided with an approved fire protection plan as required in Section 1103.1.1.
102.5 Referenced codes and
standards
. The most current version of the codes and standards listed in chapter 80 shall be the referenced codes and standards considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2.
102.5.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provision of this code shall apply.
102.5.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards.  Where the extent of the reference to referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
102.6 Subjects not regulated by this code.  Where applicable standards or requirements are not set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordinances, or bylaws adopted by the jurisdiction, compliance with applicable standards of the National Fire Protection Association or other nationally recognized fire safety standards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of compliance with the intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the authority of the fire code official to determine compliance with codes or standards of those activities or installations within the fire code official’s jurisdiction or responsibility.
102.7 Matters not provided for. Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occupants thereof, that are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by the fire code official.
102.8 Conflicting provisions. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
102.8.1 Other laws.  The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state, or federal law. Whenever an applicable federal, tribal, or state law or regulation imposes higher or more stringent standards than are required by this code, the provision of that other law or regulation shall govern. Whenever the standards imposed by this code are higher or more stringent than the standards imposed by any other applicable law or regulation, then the standards of this code shall govern.
102.9 Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section, or provision of this code.
Section 103
Departments, Divisions,
Boards
, and Commission
s
103.1 Establishment and duties of Department/Division of Fire Prevention.  Each fire department shall establish a department/division to implement, administer, and enforce the provisions of this code in the fire department’s jurisdiction.  Each department/division shall be operated under the supervision of the fire
chief
of the respective fire department or another duly appointed authority of the respective fire department, which appointees shall hereinafter be referred to collectively as the “fire code official” or “code official.”
103.1.1 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of the fire district(s) and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the fire code official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy fire code official, other related technical officers, inspectors, and other employees.
103.2 Duties of the
Fire Code Adoption and Revision Commission
. Having been duly created by the
BoCC
pursuant to Colorado law, the
FCARC
shall serve two primary functions: (1) make recommendations to the BoCC on matters relating to the adoption or amendment of this code, and (2) ensure consistent interpretation and enforcement of this code by the fire departments.  The FCARC shall at a minimum meet bi-annually at a time and place of its choosing. To ensure consistent interpretation and enforcement of the fire code, the FCARC may issue statements regarding the proper interpretation of fire code provisions or recommend that the BoCC amend fire code provisions.
103.2.1 Reports to the
FCARC
. The county attorney or the county attorney’s designee shall present to the FCARC the facts and circumstances leading to the county attorney’s written interpretation of a fire code term or provision pursuant to section 102.3. The fire chief of each of the fire departments, or each of the chief’s representatives, shall present to the FCARC a report, a minimum of two (2) times per year, which reports shall include:
1. The number of extension requests for code violations;
2. Challenges or repeat issues;
3. Summary of the most common violations;
4. Modifications/
variances
issued; and
5. New forms of
development
and technology.
103.3 Establishment and duties of the
Fire Code Board of Appeals
. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals (
BoA
).  The
BoA
shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the
Board of County Commissioners
.  The fire code official for the jurisdiction in which the appeal is occurring shall be an ex officio member of said BoA but shall not have a vote on any matter before the BoA.  The BoA shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code official.
103.3.1 Authority. The Board of Appeals may hear appeals brought by any person aggrieved by his or her inability to obtain a fire code permit, building code permit, or
land use permit
because of a decision of any administrative officer or agency based upon or made in the course of the administration or enforcement of the provisions of this code. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the intent of this code or the rules legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent method of protection or safety is proposed. The BoA shall not have the authority to waive requirements of this code. The BoA may make special exceptions to the provisions of this code provided the BoA shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code
impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements.
103.3.2 Eligibility; membership. All members of the Fire Code Board of Appeals shall be residents of La Plata County and shall have reached the age of eighteen (18) years on the effective date of their appointment. The BoA shall consist of five (5) members appointed by, and serving at the pleasure of, the Board of County Commissioners. When possible, the five (5) members of the BoA shall consist of the five (5) professionals described below. If any one or all of the professional qualifications described below cannot be practicably met, the BoCC may appoint a reasonable qualified replacement.
1. Design professional. One member shall be a practicing design professional registered in the practice of engineering or architecture in the state of Colorado.
2.  Fire protection engineering professional. One member shall be a qualified
engineer
, technologist, technician or safety professional trained in fire protection engineering, fire science or fire technology. Qualified representatives in this category shall include fire protection
contractors
and certified technicians engaged in fire protection system design.
3.  Industrial safety professional. One member shall be registered industrial or chemical engineer, certified hygienist, certified safety professional, certified hazardous materials manager or comparably qualified specialist experienced in chemical process safety or industrial safety.
4.  General contractor. One member shall be a contractor regularly engaged in the construction, alteration, maintenance, repair or remodeling of buildings or building services and systems regulated by this code.
5.  General industry or business representative. One member shall be a representative of business or industry not represented by a member from one of the other categories of board members described above.
103.3.3 Rules and procedures. The Board of Appeals members shall elect from their membership a chair, vice chair, and any other officers they deem appropriate for the accomplishment of their task. Meetings of the
BoA
shall be held at the call of the chair and at such other times as necessary to fulfill its responsibilities. Meetings of the BoA shall be open to the public and conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open Meetings Law, C.R.S. § 24-6-402. Notices and agendas of the BoA meetings shall be posted at the La Plata County Administration Building located at 1101 East Second Avenue, Durango, Colorado. The presence of a majority of the BoA shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The chair, or in the chair's absence, the vice chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The BoA shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and it shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board of county commissions and shall be a public record. The BoA shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with duplicate copies to all of the fire departments, the county attorney and the La Plata County Community Development Department. The BoA may adopt supplemental rules of procedure not inconsistent with this code.
103.3.4 Notice of right to appeal. Any and all written decisions made by an administrative officer or agency based upon or made in the course of the administration or enforcement of the provisions of this code shall include a statement notifying a potentially aggrieved person that he or she may appeal that decision to the Board of Appeals.
103.4 Liability. La Plata County, the fire departments, the fire chiefs, members of the
Fire Code Board of Appeals
and the
FCARC
, or any employees charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting within their scope of employment in accordance with Colorado law, in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally and are hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties.
Section 104
General Authority and Responsibilities
104.1 General. The fire code official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this code and shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code, and to adopt policies, procedures, rules, and regulations to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies, procedures, rules, and regulations shall be in compliance with all terms and provisions of this code, the intent and purpose of this code, and any interpretation rendered by the county attorney or the
FCARC
and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
104.2 Applications, permits, and inspections. The fire code official is hereby authorized to receive applications and issue construction and/or operational permits, to offer comments regarding land use or
building permits
issued by La Plata County, and pursuant to Colorado law, inspects buildings, premises, and public places as follows:
104.2.1 Fire code permits. Pursuant to section 105 below, the fire code official may review applications and issue those construction and/or operational permits as are required by this code. These permits shall be referred to as “fire code permits” and shall be distinguished from land use or building permits issued by La Plata County. When a fire code permit concerns
new construction
also requiring a building permit pursuant to chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code, the building code official shall not issue a certificate of occupancy until the respective fire department certifies that the applicant has complied with all applicable fire code permit requirements.
104.2.2 Comments regarding land use permits. The fire code official may review land use applications and offer comments regarding the proposed development to the La Plata County Community Development Department.  Any comments shall be offered within a reasonable period of time as specified by the  Community Development Department and shall be constrained to (1) this code’s applicability or potential applicability to the proposed development, and/or (2) the need for and the details of a
fire response plan
.  A fire response plan shall be required for all development requiring a land use permit and shall be submitted as an electronic pdf document corresponding to the following paper size, 11” x 17”.  The following items, if applicable, shall be shown on the fire response plan:
1. Building footprint, layout of each floor, dimensions, and code analysis.
2. Exterior doors.
3. Interior walls and fire walls (area separation wall), include fire rating.
4. Fire hydrant locations for this structure.
5. Gas and electric meter (shut offs).
6. Curb box water meter (shut off).
7. Fire department key box location.
8. Fire Department Connection (FDC).
9. Location of standpipes (if applicable).
10. Location of fire alarm panel and annunciators, elevator, and elevator room.
11. Sprinkler riser location.
12. Roof
access
and vent.
13. Type of construction for exterior walls and roof.
14. Exterior LP storage tanks.
15. Hazardous material storage.
16. Underground storage tank locations.
17. Aboveground storage tank locations; and
18. Other special areas as required by the respective fire department.
104.2.3 Comments regarding a building permit. The fire code official may review construction documents and corresponding applications for building permits governed by chapter 18 of the La Plata County Code. If requested by a fire department or determined by the
building official
to be necessary, the building official shall notify applicants that an exact copy of all construction documents and corresponding application materials must be delivered to the appropriate fire department within forty-eight (48) hours. In addition to reviewing construction documents and application materials, the fire code official may inspect projects under-construction in conjunction with the building code official's inspection. After reviewing construction documents and application materials or inspecting projects under-construction, the fire code official may offer comments to the applicant and La Plata County building official. Any comments shall be offered within a reasonable period of time as specified by the building official and shall be constrained to this code's applicability or potential applicability to the proposed project or project under-construction. Prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy, the building official shall determine that an applicant has complied with the fire code official's comments or request that the county attorney send written notice documenting a differing interpretation of the relevant fire code provision to the fire departments pursuant to paragraph 102.10.1 above.
104.2.4 Inspections pursuant to Colorado law. Pursuant to Colorado law, the fire code official shall inspect or cause to be inspected as often as the fire code official deems is necessary, all buildings, premises, and public places, except the interior of any private
dwelling
unless pursuant to consent or a warrant, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition liable to cause fire or for the purpose of obtaining information relative to the violation of the various provisions of Colorado law or this fire code.
104.3 Right of entry. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this code, the fire code official is authorized to enter into all structures and upon all premises at reasonable times during business hours or such times as such structures or premises are open for the purpose of examination in conformity with the duties imposed in 104.2.4 and it is unlawful for any person to interfere with the fire code official’s discharge of his/her duties or to hinder or prevent the fire code official from inspecting or entering into or upon any building, establishments, enclosures, or premises in the discharge of his/her duties.  If entry is refused for any reason, the fire code official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by Colorado law to secure entry.
104.3.1 Warrant. Where the fire code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an
owner
, the owner’s authorized
agent
or occupant or person having charge, care or
control
of the building or premises shall not fail or
neglect
, after proper request is made herein provided, to permit entry therein by the fire code official for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
104.4 Identification. The fire code official shall carry on his/her person properly-authorized fire department identification which shall be shown, on request, to the
owner
,
lessee
,
agent
, or occupant of any structure or premises prior to the inspection of the same.
104.5 Notices and orders.  The fire code official is authorized to issue such notices or orders as are required to affect compliance with this code in accordance with section 109.1 and 109.2.
104.6 Official records.  The fire code official shall keep official records of applications received, construction and operational permits issued, comments, fees, modifications, and reports of inspections for not less than five (5) years or for as long as the structure or activity to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise provided by other regulations of the State of Colorado.
104.7 Approved materials and equipment. All materials, equipment and devices approved by the fire code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
104.7.1 Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment, and devices shall not be reused or reinstalled unless such elements have been reconditioned, tested, and placed in good and proper working condition and approved.
104.7.2 Technical assistance. To determine the acceptability of technologies, processes, products, facilities, materials and uses attending the design, operation or use of a building or premises subject to inspection by the fire code official, the fire code official is authorized to require the owner or agent to provide, without charge to the jurisdiction, a technical opinion and report. The opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory, or fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the fire code official and shall analyze the fire safety properties of the design, operation or use of the building or premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon, to recommend necessary changes. The fire code official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
104.8 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the fire code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the fire code official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical, and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the department of fire prevention.
104.9 Alternative materials and methods. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved. The fire code official is authorized to approve an alternative material or method of construction where the fire code official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, and safety.
104.9.1 Research reports.  Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
104.9.2  Tests.  Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the fire code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance to be made at no expense to the jurisdiction.  Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test standards.  In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods, the fire code official shall approve the testing procedures.  Tests shall be performed by an approved agency.  Reports of such tests shall be retained by the fire code official for the period required for retention of public records.
104.10 Fire investigations. The fire code official, the fire department or other responsible authority shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of any fire, explosion, or other hazardous condition within their jurisdiction.
104.10.1  Assistance from other agencies.  Police and other enforcement agencies shall have the authority to render necessary assistance in the investigation of fires when requested to do so.
104.11 Authority at fires.  The fire chief shall have authority over the supervision of all fires within the respective fire department’s jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided by law.
104.11.1 Barricades. The fire chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across any
street
, alley, place, or private property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or interference with the lawful efforts of the fire department to manage and control the situation and to handle fire apparatus.
104.11.2 Obstructing operations. Persons shall not obstruct the operations of the fire department in connection with extinguishment or control of any fire, or actions relative to other emergencies, or disobey any lawful command of the fire chief or officer of the department in charge of the emergency, or any part thereof, or any lawful order of a police officer assisting the fire department.
104.11.3 Systems and devices.  Persons shall not render a life safety system or life safety device inoperative during an emergency unless by direction of the fire chief or fire department official in charge of the incident.
Section 105
Permits
105.1 General. Permits shall be in accordance with sections 105.1.1 through 105.7.13.
105.1.1 Permits required. A property owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to conduct an operation or business or install or modify systems and equipment that are regulated by this code or cause any such work to be performed, shall first make application to the fire code official, and obtain the required permit.
105.1.1.1 Obtaining permits. Permits required by this code shall be obtained from the fire code official for the respective fire departments. Permit fees, if any, shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the fire code official.
105.1.2 Types of permits. There shall be two (2) types of permits as follows:
1. Operational permit.  An operational permit allows the applicant to conduct an operation or a business for which a permit is required by section 105.6 for either:
1.1 A prescribed period.
1.2 Until renewed or revoked.
2. Construction permit. A construction permit allows the applicant to install or modify systems and equipment for which a permit is required by section 105.7.
105.1.3 Multiple permits for the same location. Where more than one permit is required for the same location, the fire code official is authorized to consolidate such permits into a single permit provided that each provision is listed on the permit.
105.1.4
Emergency repairs
. Where equipment replacement and repairs must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next business day to the fire code official.
105.1.5 Repairs. Application or notice to the fire code official is not required for ordinary repairs to structures, equipment, or systems.  Such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion thereof; the removal or change of any required means of egress; rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements; nor shall any repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, fire protection water supply, automatic sprinkler system, fire alarm system or other work affecting fire protection or life safety.
105.1.6 Annual permit. Instead of an individual construction permit for each alteration to an already approved system or equipment installation, the fire code official is authorized to issue an annual permit upon application therefore to any person,
firm
or corporation regularly employing one or more qualified tradespersons in the building, structure or on the premises owned or operation by the applicant for the permit.
105.1.6.1 Annual permit records. The person to whom an annual permit is issued shall keep a detailed record of alterations made under such annual permit.  The fire code official shall have access to such records at all times or such records shall be filed with the fire code official as designated.
105.2 Application. Application for a permit required by this code shall be made to the fire code official in such form and detail as prescribed by the fire code official. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by such plans as prescribed by the fire code official.
105.2.1 Refusal to issue permit. If the application for a permit describes a use that does not conform to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, the fire code official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the application to the applicant with the refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reasons for refusal.
105.2.2 Inspection authorized. Before a new operational permit is approved, the fire code official is authorized to inspect the receptacles,
vehicles
, buildings, devices, premises, storage spaces or areas to be used to determine compliance with this code or any operational constraints required.
105.2.3 Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for any proposed work or operation shall be deemed to have been
abandoned
sixty (60) days after the date of filing, unless such application has been diligently prosecuted or a permit shall have been issued; except that the fire code official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding thirty (30) days each if there is reasonable cause.
105.2.4 Action on application. The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the fire code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefore. If the fire code official is satisfied that the proposed work or operation conforms to the requirements of this code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the fire code official shall issue a permit therefore as soon as practicable.
105.3 Conditions of a permit. A permit shall constitute permission to maintain, store or handle materials; or to conduct processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property; or to install equipment utilized in connection with such activities; or to install or modify any fire protection system or equipment or any other construction, equipment installation or modification in accordance with the provisions of this code where a permit is required by section 105.6 or 105.7. Such permission shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, or set aside any of the provisions of this code or other applicable regulations or laws of the jurisdiction.
105.3.1 Expiration. An operational permit shall remain in effect until reissued, renewed, or revoked or for such a period as specified in the permit. Construction permits shall automatically become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after the time the work is commenced. Before such work recommences, a new permit shall be first obtained and the fee to recommence work, if any, shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original construction documents for such work, and provided further that such suspension or
abandonment
has not exceeded one year. Permits are not transferable and any change in occupancy, operation, tenancy, or ownership shall require that a new permit be issued.
105.3.2 Extensions. A
permittee
holding an unexpired permit shall have the right to apply for an extension of the time within which the permittee will commence work under that permit when work is unable to be commenced within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The fire code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of the time period of a permit for periods of not more than ninety (90) days each. Such extensions shall be requested by the permit holder in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
105.3.3 Occupancy prohibited before approval. The building or structure shall not be occupied prior to the fire code official issuing a permit and conducting associated inspections indicating the applicable provisions of this code have been met.
105.3.4 Conditional permits. Where permits are required and upon the request of a permit applicant, the fire code official is authorized to issue a conditional permit to occupy the premises or portion thereof before the entire work or operations on the premises is completed, provided that such portion or portions will be occupied safely prior to full completion or installation of equipment and operations without endangering life or public welfare. The fire code official shall notify the permit applicant in writing of any limitations or restrictions necessary to keep the permit area safe. The holder of a conditional permit shall proceed only to the point for which approval has been given, at the permit holder’s own risk and without assurance that approval for the occupancy or the utilization of the entire premises, equipment or operations will be granted.
105.3.5 Posting the permit. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the fire code official.
105.3.6 Compliance with code. The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data. Any addition to or alteration of approved construction documents shall be approved in advance by the fire code official, as evidenced by the issuance of a new or amended permit.
105.3.7 Information on the permit. The fire code official shall issue all permits required by this code on an approved form furnished for that purpose. The permit shall contain a general description of the operation or occupancy and its location, and any other information required by the fire code official. Issued permits shall bear the signature of the fire code official or other approved legal authorization.
105.3.8 Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinances of the jurisdiction.  Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents, operational documents and other data shall not prevent the fire code official from requiring correction of errors in the documents or other data.
105.4 Construction documents. Construction documents shall be in accordance with section 105.4.1 through 105.4.2.
105.4.1 Submittals. Construction documents and supporting data shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for a permit or review. Documents and supporting data shall be submitted in PDF form with each application for a permit or plan and in such form and detail as required by the fire code official. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the fire code official or other applicable law.
Exception: The fire code official is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents and supporting data not required to be prepared by a registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
105.4.1.1 Examination of documents.  The fire code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the work indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of this code.
105.4.2 Information on construction documents. Construction documents shall be drawn to scale upon suitable material. Electronic media documents are allowed to be submitted when approved by the fire code official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations as determined by the fire code official.
105.4.2.1 Fire protection system shop drawings.  Shop drawings for the fire protection system(s) shall be submitted to indicate compliance with this code and the construction documents and shall be approved prior to the start of installation. Shop drawings shall contain all information as required by the referenced installation standards in chapter 9.
105.4.3 Applicant responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the construction documents include all of the fire protection requirements, and the shop drawings are complete and in compliance with the applicable codes and standards.
105.4.4 Approved documents. Construction documents approved by the fire code official are approved with the intent that such construction documents comply in all respects with this code. Review and approval by the fire code official shall not relieve the applicant of the responsibility of compliance with this code.
105.4.4.1 Phased approval.  The fire code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of part of a structure, system, or operation before the construction documents for the whole structure, system or operation have been submitted, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit for parts of a structure, system, or operation acknowledges and agrees to proceed at the holder’s own risk with the building operation and without assurance or reasonable reliance that a permit for the entire structure, system or operation will be granted. The fire code official reserves the right to approve or deny applications for permits of subsequent phases of a structure, system, or operation based on its compliance with the then applicable fire code and without regard to previously issued permits for earlier phases or parts of a structure, system, or operation.
105.4.5 Amended construction documents. Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents.
105.4.6 Retention of construction documents.  One set of construction documents shall be retained by the fire code official for a period of not less than one hundred eighty (180) days from date of completion of the permitted work, or as required by state or local laws.  One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant and said set shall be kept on the
site
of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
105.5 Revocation. The fire code official is authorized to revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code where it is found by inspection or otherwise that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the application, construction documents, or other materials provided by the applicant or applicant’s agent on which the permit or approval was based including, but not limited to, any one of the following:
1. The permit is used for a location or establishment other than that for which it was issued.
2. The permit is used for a condition or activity other than that listed in the permit.
3. Conditions and limitations set forth in the permit have been violated.
4. There have been any false statements or misrepresentations as to the material fact in the application for permit or plans submitted or a condition of the permit.
5. The permit is used by a different person or firm than the name for which it was issued.
6. The permittee failed, refused, or neglected to comply with orders or notices duly served in accordance with the provisions of this code within the time provided therein.
7. The permit was issued in error or in violation of an ordinance, regulation, or this code.
105.6 Required operational permits. The fire code official is authorized to issue operational permits for the operations set forth in section 105.6.1 through 105.6.13:
105.6.1 Special amusement buildings. An operational permit is required to operate a special amusement building.
105.6.2 Carnivals and fairs.  An operational permit is required to conduct a carnival or fair.
105.6.3
Combustible
dust-producing operations. An operational permit is required to operate a grain elevator, flour starch mill, feed mill, or plant pulverizing aluminum, coal, cocoa, magnesium, spices or sugar, or other operations producing combustible
dust
as defined in chapter 2.
105.6.4 Compressed gases. An operational permit is required for the storage, use or handling at normal temperature and pressure (NTP) of compressed gases in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.4.
Exception: Vehicles equipped for and using compressed gas as fuel for propelling the vehicle.
TABLE 105.6.4
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR COMPRESSED GASES
TYPE OF GAS
AMOUNT
(cubic feet at NTP)
Carbon Dioxide used in carbon dioxide enrichment systems
875 (100 lbs.)
Carbon Dioxide used in insulated liquid carbon dioxide beverage dispensing applications
875 (100 lbs.)
Corrosive
200
Flammable (except cryogenic fluids and liquefied petroleum gases)
200
Highly toxic
Any amount
Inert and simple asphyxiant
6,000
Oxidizing (including oxygen)
504
Pyrophoric
Any amount
Toxic
Any amount
For SⅠ: 1 cubic foot = 0.02832 m³
105.6.5 Cryogenic fluids. An operational permit is required to produce, store, transport on site, use, handle or dispense cryogenic fluids in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.5.
TABLE 105.6.5
105 PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR CRYOGENIC FLUIDS
TYPE OF CRYOGENIC FLUID
INSIDE BUILDING
(gallons)
OUTSIDE BUILDING
(gallons)
Flammable
More than 1
60
Inert
60
500
Oxidizing (includes oxygen)
10
50
Physical or health hazard not indicated above
Any amount
Any amount
For SⅠ: 1 gallon = 3.785 L.
105.6.6 Exhibits and trade shows. An operational permit is required to operate exhibits and trade shows.
105.6.7 Explosives.  An operational permit is required for the manufacture, storage, handling, sale, or use of any quantity of explosive, explosive material, fireworks, or pyrotechnic special effects within the scope of chapter 56.
Exception: Storage in Group R-3 occupancies of smokeless propellant, black powder, and small arms primers for personal use, not for resale and in accordance with section 5606.
105.6.8 Hazardous materials. An operational permit is required to store, transport on site, dispense, use or handle hazardous materials in excess of the amounts listed in Table 105.6.8.
TABLE 105.6.8
PERMIT AMOUNTS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
TYPE OF MATERIAL
AMOUNT
Corrosive materials
Liquids
Solids
55 gallons
1,000 pounds
Explosive materials
See section 105.6.7
Flammable materials
Solids
100 pounds
Highly toxic materials
Liquids
Solids
Any amount
Any amount
Organic peroxides
Liquids
Class I
Class II
Class III
Class IV
Class V
Solids
Class I
Class II
Class III
Class IV
Class V
Any amount
Any amount
1 gallon
2 gallons
No permit required
Any amount
Any amount
10 pounds
20 pounds
No permit required
Oxidizing materials
Liquids
Class 4
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Solids
Class 4
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Any amount
1 gallon ᵃ
10 gallons
55 gallons
Any amount
10 pounds ᵇ
100 pounds
500 pounds
Pyrophoric materials
Gases
Liquids
Solids
Any amount
Any amount
Any amount
Toxic materials
Liquids
Solids
10 gallons
100 pounds
Unstable (reactive) materials
Liquids
Class 4
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Solids
Class 4
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Any amount
Any amount
5 gallons
10 gallons
Any amount
Any amount
50 pounds
100 pounds
Water-reactive materials
Liquids
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Solids
Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
Any amount
5 gallons
55 gallons
Any amount
50 pounds
500 pounds
For SⅠ: 1 gallon = 3.785 L, 1 pound = 0.454 kg.
a. Twenty (20) gallons where Table 5003.1.1(1) Note k applies and hazard identification
signs
in accordance with section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of twenty (20) gallons or less.
b. Two hundred (200) pounds where Table 5003.1.1(1) Note k applies and hazard identification signs in accordance with section 5003.5 are provided for quantities of two hundred (200) pounds or less.
105.6.9 High-piled storage. An operational permit is required to use a building or portion thereof as a high-piled storage area exceeding five hundred (500) square feet, including aisles (46 m2).
105.6.10 Mobile food preparation vehicles. A permit is required for mobile food preparation vehicles equipped with appliances that produce
smoke
or grease-laden vapors.
105.6.11 Open burning.  An operational permit is required for the kindling or maintaining of an open fire or a fire on any public street, alley,
road
, or other public or private ground.  Instruction and stipulations of the permit shall be adhered to.
Exception:  Recreational fires.
105.6.12 Plant
extraction
systems. An operational permit is required to use plant extraction systems.
105.6.13 Pyrotechnic special effects material.  An operational permit is required for use and handling of pyrotechnic special effects materials.
105.7 Required construction permits. The fire code official is authorized to issue construction permits for the following work as set forth in sections 105.7.1 through 105.7.13.
105.7.1 Automatic fire-extinguishing systems. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to an NFPA automatic fire-extinguishing system.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.2  Battery systems. A construction permit is required to install stationary storage battery systems.
105.7.3 Capacitor energy storage systems. A construction permit is required to install capacitor energy storage systems.
105.7.4 Emergency responder radio coverage systems. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to emergency responder radio coverage systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a construction permit.
105.7.5 Fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment.  A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to fire alarm and detection systems and related equipment. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.6 Fire pumps and related equipment. A construction permit is required for installation of or modification to fire pumps and related fuel tanks, jockey pumps, controllers, and generators. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and shall not require a permit.
105.7.7 Gas detection systems.  A construction permit is required for the installation, modification, or removal of gas detection systems.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered a modification and shall not require a permit.
105.7.8 LP-gas. A construction permit is required for installation of modification to an LP-gas system.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.9 Private fire hydrants and underground suppression lines.  A construction permit is required for the installation of or modification of private fire hydrants or underground suppression lines. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.10 Solar photovoltaic power systems.  A construction permit is required to install or modify solar photovoltaic power systems.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.11 Spraying or dipping.  A construction permit is required to install or modify a spray room, dip tank or booth.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.12 Standpipe systems. A construction permit is required for the installation, modification, or removal from service of a standpipe system. Maintenance performed in accordance with this code is not considered to be a modification and does not require a permit.
105.7.13 Temporary
membrane structures
and tents. A construction permit is required to erect a temporary stage canopy having a floor area in excess of four hundred (400) square feet or an air-supported temporary membrane structure, tent or multiple tents placed side-by-side having a floor area in excess of seven hundred (700) square feet.
Exceptions:
1. Tents used exclusively for recreational and non-recreational camping.
2. Funeral tents and curtains, or extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services.
3. Tents and awnings open on all sides, which comply with all of the following:
3.1 Fire breaks of a minimum twelve (12) feet separating the individual tents to seven hundred (700) square feet or less.
3.2 A minimum clearance of twelve (12) feet to structures and other tents.
3.3 Individual tents shall have a maximum size of seven hundred (700) square feet.
Section 106
Inspection
106.1 Inspection authority.  The fire code official is authorized to enter and examine any building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle, or premises in accordance with section 104.3 for the purpose of enforcing this code.
106.2 Inspections.  The fire code official is authorized to conduct such inspections as are deemed necessary to determine the extent of compliance with the provisions of this code and to approve reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be prepared and submitted in writing for review and approval.  Inspection reports shall be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual.  The fire code official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual, detailed, or complex technical issues subject to the approval of the governing body.
106.2.1 Inspection requests.  It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the fire code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspections of such work that are required by this code.
106.2.2 Approval required.  Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the fire code official.  The fire code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed or notify the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with this code.  Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected, and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the fire code official.
106.3 Concealed work.  It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes.  Where any installation subject to inspection prior to use is covered or concealed without having first been inspected, the fire code official shall have the authority to require that such work be exposed for inspection.  Neither the fire code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
106.4  Approvals. Approval as the result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction.  Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel provisions of the code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
Section 107
Maintenance
107.1 Maintenance of safeguards. Where any device, equipment, system, condition, arrangement, level of protection, or any other feature is required for compliance with the provisions of this code, or otherwise installed, such device, equipment, system, condition, arrangement, level of protection, or other feature shall thereafter be continuously maintained in accordance with this code and applicable referenced standards.
107.2 Testing and operation.  Equipment requiring periodic testing or operation to ensure maintenance shall be tested or operated as specified in this code.
107.2.1 Reinspection and testing.  Where any work or installation does not pass an initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made so as to achieve compliance with this code.  The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the fire code official for inspection and testing.
107.3 Recordkeeping.  A record of periodic inspections, tests, servicing and other operations and maintenance shall be maintained on the premises or other approved location for not less than three (3) years, or a different period of time where specified in this code or referenced standards.  Records shall be made available for inspection by the fire code official and a copy of the records shall be provided to the fire code official upon request.  The fire code official is authorized to prescribe the form and format of such recordkeeping.  The fire code official is authorized to require that certain required records be filed with the fire code official.
107.4 Supervision.  Maintenance and testing shall be under the supervision of a responsible person who shall ensure that such maintenance and testing are conducted at specified intervals in accordance with this code.
107.5 Rendering equipment inoperable. Portable or fixed fire-extinguishing systems or devices, and fire-warning systems, shall not be rendered inoperative or inaccessible, except as necessary during emergencies, maintenance, repairs, alterations, drills, or prescribed testing.
107.6 Overcrowding.  Overcrowding or admittance of any person beyond the approved capacity of a building or a portion thereof shall not be allowed. The fire code official, upon finding any overcrowding conditions or obstruction in aisles, passageways, or other means of egress, or upon finding any condition that constitutes a life safety hazard, and continuing until such condition or obstruction is corrected, shall be authorized to cause the building, structure, or other location to be evacuated and closed to the public or an event to be stopped and a crowd dispersed.
107.7.1  Owner/occupant responsibility. Correction and abatement of violations of this code shall be the responsibility of the owner. If an occupant creates, or allows to be created, hazardous conditions in violation of this code, the occupant shall be held responsible for the abatement of such hazardous conditions.
Section 108
Violations
108.1 Violations.  It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish, or utilize a building, occupancy, premises, or system regulated by this code, or cause the same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.  Violations of this code may be remedied in accordance with Colorado law and the following provisions by either La Plata County or the fire department within whose boundaries the violation occurs. The jurisdiction enforcing the violations shall be responsible for any expenses incurred in pursuing enforcement of the violation.  No jurisdiction shall have the obligation to prosecute violations.  It is within the discretion of the entity enforcing the violation to determine whether to pursue civil penalties, criminal remedies, or both.
108.1.1 County procedure.  If La Plata County elects to remedy a suspected fire code violation, it shall act according to Colorado law and the following provisions.
108.1.1.1 Notice. The building official, county
code enforcement officer
, or Director of Community Development, upon finding a violation, shall send a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property owner’s mailing address as listed in the records of the County Assessor’s Office and to the mailing address of the
real property
in question, if an address exists. The notice shall specify the details of the violation, the provisions of this code or the permit being violated, the corrective action that must be taken, and a deadline by which the violation is to be corrected. Violations shall be corrected within thirty (30) days after the date of the notice unless, in the discretion of the Director of Community Development, the violation must be corrected in a shorter period due to an immediate risk to the public health, safety or welfare. If the violation continues beyond the deadline set forth in the notice, a court action may be pursued, a notice of violation may be recorded in the property records in the La Plata County Clerk and Recorder’s Office, the permit may be revoked, and any other remedy available at law or equity may be pursued. The director may, in the director’s discretion, approve additional time to correct the violation if
good cause
is shown and the delay in correcting the violation does not pose an unreasonable risk to the public health, safety or welfare.
108.1.1.2 Recording of violations. If, following notice in compliance with paragraph 108.1.1, the violation is not timely corrected, the building official, county code enforcement officer, or Director of Community Development Department may cause a notice of the violation to be recorded in the real property records in the La Plata County Clerk and Recorder’s Office for the property or properties on which the violation exists. Such notice shall be in a form prescribed by the building official. The recorded notice shall specify the details of the violation (including a reference to which specific provisions of this code or permit are being violated); state the date and manner of service of any previous notice(s) regarding the violation (including attaching a copy of at least one notice sent in compliance with paragraph 108.1.1); state that the owner, occupant or alleged violator may appeal the recording of the violation to the board of county commissioners within ten (10) days after the date of the recording and, in the absence of such appeal, the recorded notice shall become final and remain in the records until the violation is corrected; and state that the appeal must be submitted to the director of community development in writing. A copy of the recorded notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner’s mailing address as listed in the records of the county assessor’s office and to the mailing address of the real property in question, if an address exists. In addition, within twenty-four (24) hours of recording, a copy of the recorded notice shall be posted at the subject property in a conspicuous location on the
parcel
,
right-of-way
, site, building, structure,
improvement
or other facility. The recorded notice shall not constitute a lien or
encumbrance
upon the property but shall be constructive notice of the violation to subsequent purchasers. Upon adequate demonstration to the building official that all violations are satisfactorily cured, the building official shall cause a release of the notice to be filed in the real property records.
108.1.1.3  Appeal
hearing
.  If the director receives a timely appeal of the recording of a violation pursuant to paragraph 108.1.1.2, the director shall place the matter on the board’s next available land use hearing agenda. The appealing party shall be notified of the date, time and place of the hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the appealing party’s mailing address as listed in the records of the county assessor’s office no less than five (5) days prior to the hearing. At the appeal hearing, the appealing party shall have the opportunity to present evidence and testimony to show cause why further enforcement action should not be taken. The board shall consider all such evidence and testimony, along with any presentation, evidence or testimony presented by the director or staff or fire code officials, in reaching its decision to affirm or overturn the decision to record a notice. Within five (5)
business days
after conclusion of the appeal hearing, the board may decide to overturn the decision  (and instruct the director to record a withdrawal of the previously recorded notice regarding the violation) or may affirm the decision.
108.1.1.4  Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this code shall be guilty of an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-402, as amended, and fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each violation of this code and each day's continuation of such violations shall be a separate offense.
108.1.1.5 Civil action. The county may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any building, structure, or equipment violating any provision of this code. The civil actions referenced in this section may be pursued in conjunction with, or independent of, the penalties described in paragraph 108.1.1.2.
108.1.2 Fire department procedure. If a fire department elects to remedy a suspected fire code violation, it shall act according to Colorado law and the following provisions.
108.1.2.1 Notice. The fire chief, upon finding a violation, shall send a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property owner’s mailing address as listed in the records of the County Assessor’s Office and to the mailing address of the real property in question, if an address exists. The notice shall specify the details of the violation, the provisions of this code or the permit being violated, the corrective action that must be taken, and a deadline by which the violation is to be corrected. Violations shall be corrected within thirty (30) days after the date of the notice unless, in the discretion of the fire chief, the violation must be corrected in a shorter period due to an immediate risk to the public health, safety or welfare. If the violation continues beyond the deadline set forth in the notice, a court action may be pursued, the permit may be revoked, and any other remedy available at law or equity may be pursued. The fire chief may, in the fire chief’s discretion, approve additional time to correct the violation if good cause is shown and the delay in correcting the violation does not pose an unreasonable risk to the public health, safety or welfare.
108.1.2.2 Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this code shall be guilty of an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 32-1-1002, as amended, and punishable as allowed by law for each offense. Each violation of this code and each day's continuation of such violations shall be a separate offense.
108.1.2.3 Civil action. A fire department may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any building, structure, or equipment violating any provision of this code. The civil actions referenced in this section may be pursued in conjunction with, or independent of, the penalties described in paragraph 108.1.2.2.
108.1.2.4 Fire department orders to correct. Whenever any fire chief finds any building or other structure which, for want of repair of or lack of or insufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus, or fire extinguishing equipment as may be required by law or for reasons of age, dilapidated condition, or any other cause, is especially liable to fire or is hazardous to the safety of the occupants thereof and which is so situated as to endanger other property, and whenever such officer finds in any building combustible or explosive matter or inflammable conditions, dangerous to the safety of such building or its occupants, the fire chief shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner, lessee, agent, or occupant of such premises or building. Notices issued under this section 108 shall be in a manner and form generally consistent with the issuance of stop work orders pursuant to section 110. Any such owner, lessee, agent, or occupant who is aggrieved by any such order may file, within five (5) days after the making of any such order, a petition with the district court of the county in which such premises or building is located, requesting a review of such order, and it is the duty of such court to hear the same at the first convenient day and to make such order in the premises as justice may require, and such decision shall be final.
Section 109
Unsafe Building
109.1 General. If during the inspection of a premises, a building or structure, or any building system, in whole or in part, constitutes a clear and imminent threat to human life, safety or health, the fire code official shall issue such notice or orders to remove or remedy the conditions as shall be deemed necessary in accordance with this section, and shall refer the building to the building department for any repairs, alterations, remodeling, removing or demolition required.  Notices issued under this section 109 shall be in a manner and form generally consistent with the issuance of stop work orders pursuant to section 110. An expert trained in the specific issue may be requested to evaluate the situation at no cost to the jurisdiction.
109.1.1 Unsafe conditions. Structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe or deficient because of inadequate means of egress or which constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition.  A vacant structure that is not secured against unauthorized entry as required by Section 311 shall be deemed unsafe.
109.1.2 Structural hazards. Where an apparent structural hazard is caused by the faulty installation, operation, or malfunction of any of the items or devices governed by this code, the fire code official shall immediately notify the building code official in accordance with section 109.1.
109.2 Evacuation. The fire code official or the fire department official in charge of an incident shall be authorized to order the immediate evacuation of any occupied building deemed unsafe where such building has hazardous conditions that present imminent danger to building occupants. Persons so notified shall immediately leave the structure or premises and shall not enter or re-enter until authorized to do so by the fire code official or the fire department official in charge of the incident.
109.3 Summary abatement.  Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to life and property, the fire code official or fire department official in charge of the incident is authorized to abate summarily such hazardous conditions that are in violation of this code.
109.4 Abatement. The owner, the owner’s authorized agent, operator or occupant of a building or premises deemed unsafe by the fire code official shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or other approved corrective action.
Section 110
Stop Work Order
110.1 Order  Where the fire code official finds any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code, or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the fire code official is authorized to issue a stop work order. The stop work order shall state the nature of the violation and activity or use that must immediately cease; state the conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume; state that the owner, occupant or alleged violator may appeal the stop order to the board of appeals within three (3) business days after the date of the stop work order and, in the absence of such appeal, the stop work order shall become final and remain in effect until the violation is corrected; and state that any appeal must be submitted in writing to the applicable fire chief or fire code official.
110.2  Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner or occupant of the property, or to the owner’s or occupant’s authorized agent, or to the person doing the work.  In addition, a copy of the written stop work order shall be posted in a conspicuous location on the parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement, or other facility. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease.
110.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the fire code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
110.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty of a violation pursuant to section 108 and subject to penalties and enforcement as set forth in section 108.
Section 111
Service
Utilities
111.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The fire code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure, or system in order to safely execute emergency operations or to eliminate an immediate hazard.  The fire code official shall notify the serving utility and, where possible, the owner or the owner’s authorized agent and the occupant of the building, structure, or service system of the decision to disconnect.  If not notified prior to disconnection, then the owner, the owner's authorized agent or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 112
Fees
112.1 Fees.  A permit shall not be issued until the fees have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
112.2  Schedule of permit fees. A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule of fees established by the applicable fire department.
112.3 Work commencing before permit issuance.  A person who commences any work, activity or operation regulated by this code before obtaining the necessary permits and/or reviews shall be subject to an additional fee established by the applicable fire department, which shall be in addition to the required permit and/or review fees.
112.4 Related fees.  The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal, or demolition of work done in connection to or concurrently with the work or activity authorized by a permit shall not relieve the applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are prescribed by law.
112.5  Refunds. Each fire department is authorized to establish a refund policy.
Effective on: 1/1/1901
DIVISION 2. ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2015 EDITION
Contents:
Sec. 34-37. Amendments to the International Fire Code, 2015 edition.
Sec. 34-37. Amendments to the International Fire Code, 2015 edition.
The following provisions of the 2015 International
Fire Code
are hereby deleted, amended, or reenacted to read as follows:
I.
Section 202 General definitions.
The following definitions are added to Section 202:
Aerial fire apparatus access road.
A fire apparatus access road capable of accommodating fire department aerial apparatus.
Combustible material.
Any material that, in the form in which it is used and under the conditions anticipated, will ignite, and burn or will add appreciable heat to a fire.
Fire apparatus access road
.  A road that provides fire apparatus access from a fire station to a facility, building, or portion thereof except driveways governed by section 74-8 of the La Plata County Code.  This is a general term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street, private street, parking lot lane and access roadway.
Fire apparatus approach
.  The access in the vicinity of the structure that allows for strategic placement of fire apparatus.
Key box.
A secure, tamperproof device with a lock openable only by a fire department master key and containing building entry keys and other keys that may be required for access in an emergency.
II.
Section 304.1.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
304.1.2 Vegetation.
Weeds, grass, vines, or other growth that is capable of being ignited and endangering property, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the premises.  Vegetation clearance requirements in urban-wildland interface areas shall be in accordance with the
“Home Ignition Zone”
published by the Colorado State Forest Service.
III.
Section 319 shall be added to read as follows:
Mobile Food Preparation Vehicles
Section 319
319.1 General.
Mobile food preparation vehicles that are equipped with appliances that produce smoke or grease-laden vapors shall comply with this section.
319.2  Permit required.
Permits shall be required as set forth in section 105.6.
319.3 Exhaust hood.
Cooking equipment that produces grease-laden vapors shall be provided with a kitchen exhaust hood in accordance with section 609.
319.4 Fire protection.
Fire protection shall be provided in accordance with sections 319.4.1
and 319.4.2.
319.4.1 Fire protection for cooking equipment.
Cooking equipment shall be protected by automatic fire extinguishing systems in accordance with section 904.12.
319.4.2 Fire extinguisher.
Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with section 906.4.
319.5 Appliance connection to fuel supply piping.
Gas cooking appliances shall be secured in place and connected to fuel-supply piping with an appliance connector complying with ANSI Z21.69/CSA 6.16.  The connecting installation shall be configured in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions. Movement of appliances shall be limited by restraining devices installed in accordance with the connector and appliance manufacturer’s instructions.
319.6 Cooking oil storage containers.
Cooking oil storage containers within mobile food preparation vehicles shall have a maximum aggregate volume not more than one hundred twenty (120) gallons (454 L) and shall be stored in such a way as to not be toppled or damaged during transport.
319.7  Cooking oil storage tanks.
Cooking oil storage tanks within mobile food preparation vehicles shall comply with sections 319.7.1 through 319.7.5.2.
319.7.1 Metallic storage tanks.
Metallic cooling oil storage tanks shall be listed
in accordance with UL 80 or UL 142 and shall be installed in accordance with the tank manufacturer’s instructions.
319.7.2 Nonmetallic storage tanks.
Nonmetallic cooking oil storage tanks shall be installed in accordance with the tank manufacturer’s instructions and shall comply with both of the following:
1. Tanks shall be listed for use with cooking oil, including maximum temperature to which the tank will be exposed during use.
2. Tank capacity shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons (757 L) per tank.
319.7.3 Cooking oil storage system components.
Metal and nonmetallic cooking oil storage system components shall include, but are not limited to, piping, connections, fittings, valves, tubing, hose, pumps, vents, and other related components used for the transfer of cooking oil.
319.7.4 Design criteria.
The design, fabrication and assembly of system components shall be suitable for the working pressures, temperatures, and structural stresses to be encountered by the components.
319.7.5 Tank venting.
Normal and emergency venting shall be provided for cooking oil storage tanks.
319.7.5.1 Normal vents.
Normal vents shall be located above the maximum normal liquid line and shall have a minimum effective area not smaller than the largest filling or withdrawal connection. Normal vents are not required to vent to the exterior.
319.7.5.2 Emergency vents.
Emergency relief vents shall be located above the maximum normal liquid line and shall be in the form of a device or devices that will relieve excessive internal pressure caused by an exposure fire. For nonmetallic tanks, the emergency relief vent shall be allowed to be in the form of construction.  Emergency vents are not required to discharge to the exterior.
319.8 LP-gas systems.
Where LP-gas systems provide fuel for cooking appliances, such systems shall comply with chapter 61 and sections 319.8.1 through 319.8.5.
319.8.1 Maximum aggregate volume.
The maximum aggregate capacity of LP-gas containers transported on the vehicle and used to fuel cooking appliances only shall not exceed two hundred (200) pounds (91 kg) propane capacity.
319.8.2 Protection of container.
LP-gas containers installed on the vehicle shall be securely mounted and restrained to prevent movement.
319.8.3 LP-gas container construction.
LP-gas containers shall be manufactured in compliance with the requirements of NFPA 58.
319.8.4 Protection of system piping.
LP-gas system piping, including valves and fittings, shall be adequately protected to prevent tampering, impact damage and damage from vibration.
319.8.5 LP-gas alarms.
A
listed
LP-gas alarm shall be installed within the vehicle in the vicinity of the LP-gas system components, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
319.9 CNG systems.
Where CNG systems provide fuel for cooking appliances, such systems shall comply with sections 319.9.1 through 319.9.4.
319.9.1 CNG containers supplying only cooking fuel.
CNG containers installed solely to provide fuel for cooking purposes shall be in accordance with sections 319.9.3 through 319.9.1.3.
319.9.1.1 Maximum aggregate volume.
The maximum aggregate capacity of CNG containers transported on the vehicle shall not exceed 1,300 pounds (590 kg) water capacity.
319.9.1.2 Protection of container.
CNG containers shall be securely mounted and restrained to prevent movement. Containers shall not be installed in locations subject to a direct vehicle impact.
319.9.1.3 CNG container construction.
CNG containers shall be a NFV-2 cylinder.
319.9.2  CNG containers supplying transportation and cooking fuel.
Where CNG containers and systems are used to supply fuel for cooking purposes in addition to being used for transportation fuel, the installation shall be in accordance with NFPA 52.
319.9.3 Protection of system piping.
CNG system piping, including valves and fittings, shall be adequately protected to prevent tampering, impact damage and damage from vibration.
319.9.4 Methane alarms.
A listed methane gas alarm shall be installed within the vehicle in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.
319.10 Maintenance.
Maintenance of systems on mobile food preparation vehicles shall be in accordance with sections 319.10.1 through 319.10.3.
319.10.1 Exhaust system.
The exhaust system, including the hood, grease-removal devices, fans, ducts, and other appurtenances shall be inspected and cleaned in accordance with section 609.3.
319.10.2 Fire protection systems and devices.
Fire protection systems and devices shall be maintained in accordance with section 901.6.
319.10.3 Fuel gas systems.
LP-gas containers installed on the vehicle and fuel-gas piping systems shall be inspected annually by an approved inspection agency or a company registered with the U.S. Department of Transportation to requalify LP-gas cylinders, to ensure that system components are free from damage, suitable for the intended service and not subject to leaking. CNG containers shall be inspected every 3 years in a qualified service facility. CNG containers shall not be used past their expiration date as listed on the manufacturer’s container label.  Upon satisfactory inspection, the approved
inspection agency shall affix a tag on the fuel gas system or within the vehicle indicating the name of the inspection agency and the date of satisfactory inspection.
IV.
Section 403.2 shall be amended to include the exception
:
403.2   Group A occupancies.
Exception
. A-2 occupant load is excepted from the standards in this section if it is both (a) less than one hundred (100) and (b) not multi-story. For purposes of determining whether a structure is multi-story, a rooftop occupancy is considered an additional story in this case.
V.
Section 403.12.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
403.12.1 Fire watch personnel.
Where in the opinion of the fire code official, it is essential for public safety in a place of assembly or any other place where people congregate, because of the number of persons, or the nature of the performance, exhibition, display, contest or activity, the owner, agent, or lessee shall provide one or more fire watch personnel, as required and approved. Fire watch personnel shall comply with section 403.12.1.1, 403.12.1.2 and the State of Colorado Fire Watch Guidelines.
VI.
Section 403.12.3.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
403.12.3.2 Crowd manager training.
Training for crowd managers shall be completed and attained through the National Association of State Fire Marshals Crowd Manager Program or equivalent as approved by the fire code official.
VII.
Section 503.1.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
503.1.2  Additional access.
Additional access may be required as determined by subsection 74-4.XIII of the land use code.
VIII.
Section 503.2 shall be deleted in entirety and replaced as follows:
503.2 Specifications.
Fire apparatus access road(s) shall be installed and arranged in accordance with chapter 74 of the land use code.
IX.
Section 507.1 shall be amended to add a new section 507.1.1 as follows:
507.1.1 Alternative methods to water supply.
In areas that do not meet fire flow requirements per Appendix B for the building or facility, the fire code official is permitted to approve alternative methods to meet the intent of the fire code.
X.
Section 510.1 Exception 2 shall be amended to read as follows:
Exception 2
. Where it is determined by the fire code official and the La Plata County Sherriff’s Office that the radio coverage system is not needed.
XI.
Section 605.11.1.2  Shall be deleted in its entirety.
XII.
Table 901.6.1
Shall be amended by adding “Underground suppression supply line” to the table as follows:
TABLE 901.6.1
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM MAINTANANCE STANDARDS
SYSTEM
STANDARD
Portable fire extinguishers
NFPA 10
Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing systems
NFPA 12
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems
NFPA 12A
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems
NFPA 17
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems
NFPA 17A
Underground suppression supply line
NFPA 24
Water-based fire protection systems
NFPA 25
Fire alarm systems
NFPA 72
Smoke and heat vents
NFPA 204
Water-mist systems
NFPA 750
Clean-agent extinguishing systems
NFPA 2001
Aerosol fire-extinguishing systems
NFPA 2010
XIII.
Se
ctions 901.11 – 901.13 shall be added as follows:
901.11 Plan certification for fire alarm systems and occupant notification.
All fire alarm and occupant notification system plans submitted to the fire department for review and approval shall bear a review certification of minimum level III NICET (National Institute for the Certification of Engineering Technologies) in fire alarms.
901.12 Plan certification for fire sprinkler systems.
All fire sprinkler plans submitted to the fire department for review and approval shall bear a review certification of minimum level III NICET (National Institute for the Certification of Engineering Technologies) in fire sprinklers.
901.13 Plan certification for all other fire protection systems.
Plan certification for all other fire protection systems will be accompanied by a certification of competence if determined necessary and requested by the fire code official or his designee.
XIV.
Section 903.1.2 is added to read as follows:
903.1.2
Automatic sprinkler systems installed within La Plata County, whether required by this code or otherwise constructed, shall be installed throughout a building for complete protection.
XV.
Section 903.2.8.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
903.2.8.1 Group R-3.
An automatic sprinkler system is required in areas identified in the La Plata County Building Code, development agreements and conditions of approval and shall be installed in accordance with section 903.3.
Exceptions:
1. In a mixed-use building with two (2) or fewer dwelling units and no assembly, education, factory, high hazard, institutional or storage occupancies.
2. In single family residences unless required through development process or as modification to meet other codes.
XVI.
Section 1101.4.3 is amended to read as follows:
1101.4.3 Extension of time.
The fire code official is authorized to grant necessary extensions of time when it can be shown that the specified time periods are not physically practical or pose an undue hardship. The granting of an extension of time for compliance shall be in the sole discretion of the fire code official based on a showing of good cause and subject to the filing of an acceptable systematic plan of correction with the fire code official.
XVII.
Section 1103.2 Exception is amended to read as follows
:
Exception
: Where it is determined by the fire code official and the La Plata County Sherriff that the system is not needed.
XVIII.
Section 3103.2 is amended to read as follows:
3103.2 Temporary tents and membrane structures.
A permit and approval from the fire code official is required to erect, operate, or maintain an air-supported temporary membrane structure, tent or multiple tents placed side-by-side having a floor area in excess of seven hundred (700) square feet.
Exception:
1. Tents used exclusively for recreational and non-recreational camping.
2. Funeral tents and curtains, or extensions attached thereto, when used for funeral services.
3. Tents and awnings open on all sides, which comply with all of the following:
3.1 Fire breaks of a minimum of twelve (12) feet separating the individual tents to seven hundred (700) square feet or less.
3.2 A minimum clearance of twelve (12) feet to structures and other tents.
3.3 Individual tents shall have a maximum size of seven hundred (700) square feet.
XIX.
Chapter 80 is amended to include the following references:
NFPA 96
– Standard for ventilation control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations.
XX.
Appendix B, Section B101.2 is added to read as follows:
B101.2 Applicability.
Appendix B shall not apply to development in La Plata County not requiring a land use permit pursuant to the La Plata County Code unless meeting the full fire-flows requirements is otherwise required by Colorado law.
XXI.
Only the following sections in Appendix D are adopted. No other portions of Appendix D are adopted:
D103.5 Fire apparatus access road gates.
D103.6 Signs.
D105 Aerial fire apparatus access roads
.
(
Ord. No. 2010-01, § 1 (Exh A), 03/02/2010; Ord. No.
2023-1
, § 34, 07/10/2023
)
Effective on: 8/13/2023