Chapter 100 SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Sec. 100-5. BOCC service plan review.
Authority of the
BOCC
. In reviewing any service plan, the BOCC has the following authority:
To approve without condition or modification the service plan submitted;
To deny the service plan submitted; or
To conditionally approve the service plan subject to the submission of additional information relating to or the modification of the proposed service plan.
Review criteria.
Required findings. The BOCC
shall
deny the service plan unless evidence satisfactory to the
board
of each of the following is presented:
There is sufficient existing and projected need for organized service in the area to be serviced by the proposed special district;
The existing service in the area to be served by the proposed special district is inadequate for present and projected needs;
The proposed special district is capable of providing economical and sufficient service to the area within its proposed boundaries; and
The area to be included in the proposed special district has, or will have, the financial ability to discharge the proposed indebtedness on a reasonable basis.
Discretionary findings. The BOCC, at its discretion,
may
deny the service plan if satisfactory evidence of any of the following is not presented:
Adequate service is not, or will not be, available to the area through the
county
or other existing municipal or quasi-municipal corporations, including existing special districts, within a reasonable time and on a comparable basis;
The
facility
and service standards of the proposed special district are compatible with the facility and service standards of each county within which the proposed special district is to be located and each municipality which is an interested party under C.R.S. § 32-1-204(1);
The proposal is in substantial compliance with the county master plan or any regional plan governing the area to be included in the special district;
The proposal is in compliance with any duly adopted county, regional, or state long-range water quality
management plan
for the area; or
The creation of the proposed special district will be in the best interests of the area proposed to be served.
The BOCC may conditionally approve the service plan of a proposed special district upon satisfactory evidence that it does not comply with one or more of the criteria enumerated in this section. The BOCC may exercise this power of conditional approval if they have satisfactory evidence, based on the public hearing, that the proposed service plan does not comply with the required criteria for approval (C.R.S. § 32-1-203(2)). The BOCC's final approval shall then be contingent upon the
applicant
modifying the proposed service plan to include the changes, or providing the additional information, which the BOCC includes with its findings on the proposed service plan. If the BOCC requires changes, modifications or additional information to the proposed service plan before approval, the hearing will be continued until the changes, modifications or additional information requirements are satisfied and incorporated into the proposed service plan. Unless the continuation is to a date and time specific as announced at the hearing, renotification of interested parties and parties requesting exclusion is required pursuant to subsection 100-2(VII).
The findings of the BOCC shall be based solely upon the service plan and evidence presented at the hearing by the applicant, the PC, and any interested party.
Action
by board. Within 20 days after the completion of the hearing, the BOCC shall advise the applicant in writing of its action on the service plan. If the service plan is approved as submitted, a resolution of approval shall be issued to the applicant. If the service plan is denied, the specific detailed reasons for such denial shall be set forth in writing. If the service plan is conditionally approved, the changes or modifications to be made in, or additional information relating to, the service plan, together with the reasons for such changes, modifications, or additional information, shall also be set forth in writing, and the proceeding shall be continued until such changes, modifications, or additional information is incorporated in the service plan. Upon the satisfactory incorporation of such changes, modifications, or additional information in the service plan of the proposed special district, the BOCC shall issue a resolution of approval to the applicant.
Exclusions of property from proposed district. The BOCC may exclude territory from a proposed special district prior to approval of the service plan. The applicant shall have the burden of proving that the exclusion of such property is not in the best interests of the proposed special district. Any
person
owning property in the proposed special district who requests that his property be excluded from the special district prior to approval of the service plan shall submit such request to the BOCC no later than ten days prior to the hearing held under C.R.S. § 32-1-204, but the BOCC shall not be limited in its action with respect to exclusion of territory based upon such request. Any request for exclusion shall be acted upon before final approval of the service plan by the BOCC. If the BOCC determines that exclusion of certain property is appropriate and such exclusion is material, as determined by the BOCC, to the total assessed valuation or financial viability of the special district, the BOCC may continue the hearing held under C.R.S. § 32-1-204 to allow for the submittal and evaluation of the revised required financial elements described in subsections 100-3(I) and (II)(B).
(Res. No. 2010-21, § 1(Exh. A), 4-20-2010)
Effective on: 4/20/2010