Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-14 Irrigation facilities
I.
Purpose.
Irrigation is necessary for agricultural operations in the county. Development has the potential to disrupt the delivery of irrigation water. Ditch companies and associations exist to acquire water rights, develop storage and deliver surface water to their members for irrigation and other purposes. Ditch companies generally own and maintain ditches from their head-gates to an established point where individual property owners or lateral associations manage smaller ditch systems. Only those who own water rights or have leased a right to the water may use the water flows through a ditch.
A.
Those who hold water rights in ditches have certain responsibilities associated with these rights. Irrigators have a legal duty to maintain canals or ditches used for irrigation purposes, ditch embankments and head-gates. Therefore, a ditch owner has the right to enter the property of another to perform “reasonably necessary” monitoring, inspection, maintenance and operations on the ditch and associated structures, even if it means disturbing land within the easement area.
B.
Similarly, those who own property through which these ditches run have the responsibility of keeping the ditch easement free of obstacles (such as fences, landscaping, or bridges) and to observe a right of way of access for the ditch owner or irrigator to enter with equipment to maintain or repair the ditch or adjust flows. Notwithstanding any provision contained in this code, these ditch easements are as wide as reasonably necessary for ditch maintenance and operations and this code is not intended to annul or abridge the ditch company’s historic rights. Owners of property subject to ditch easements should not cut or alter a ditch unless the property owner has the permission of the ditch owner or a court order. Site development shall account for easements and should also recognize the reality of events such as cleanouts, normal seepage and spills of storm waters in unpredictable locations and times.
II.
Applicability.
The provisions of this section apply to all development located on parcels that include irrigation facilities.
III.
Easements
. Ditch easements may be written or unwritten and may be expressly created or may arise by implication, prescription, condemnation, or parole license/estoppel. There are many factors that may impact the size of a ditch easement, including but not limited to the slope on which the ditch is located, the volume of water carried in the ditch, types of soils, and proximity of structures to the ditch. Easements for existing irrigation facilities, including adequate easements for maintenance and access, shall be dedicated and accurately located by appropriate survey data on all final plats. Sketch plans and preliminary plats shall show the top of ditch banks relative to the limits of the easement. Applications for development will be referred to the appropriate ditch companies for review and comment as provided in section 66-11.
IV.
Review criteria
.
A.
Written approval of the ditch owner or its representatives and, where applicable, the Colorado Division of Water Resources, shall be obtained for any proposed modifications of any irrigation facilities, including but not limited to realignments, changes to configurations or crossings.
B.
Road crossings over a ditch shall be bridged or culverted in a manner consistent with the county’s crossing requirements and consistent with the hydraulic requirements of the ditch company. The ditch company shall be consulted regarding all proposed ditch crossings and written consent of the ditch company and payment of applicable crossing fees may be required.
C.
The schedule for any proposed modifications approved under this section or other activities that may disrupt the flow of water must be referred to the ditch owner for review and comment. The decision-making body may require, by condition of approval, that such modifications be made, or such activities be conducted when the disruption of water flow will be minimized.
D.
The location of the center line of the ditch shall be denoted and will extend the length of the ditch through the development parcel. The minimum width of the easement will be the area between the ditch banks plus the following:
1.
For ditches having an average bottom width of less than eight (8) feet, the easement will be twenty-five feet (25) measured from the top of the ditch on one side of the ditch.
2.
For ditches having an average bottom width of eight feet (8), the easement will be thirty feet (30) measured from the top of the ditch on both sides of the ditch.
3.
The ditch owner shall be entitled to additional easement width where the ditch owner demonstrates:
a.
Terrain or other circumstances (such as existing maintenance roads on both sides of a ditch) necessitate a wider easement or additional easements to operate, repair and maintain the ditch;
b.
An entitlement to a wider easement by law or based on historical use or an agreement between the property owner and the ditch owner.
E.
If the decision-making body determines the existence of a ditch through a proposed development may result in improper use of that ditch for recreational purposes by residents of the development, or pose a safety risk to residents (such as childhood drownings) then the applicant may be required to take protective measures such as fencing or piping.
F.
When the decision-making body determines that unreasonable, unnecessary or extraordinary requirements are proposed by a ditch owner, the decision-making body may approve only those requirements deemed appropriate to protect irrigation facilities.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 70-15, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020