Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-22 Temporary uses
I.
Applicability.
This section shall apply to any temporary use that does not qualify for a special event permit under section 73-20.
II.
Standards specific to temporary uses.
The following additional standards shall apply to all temporary uses within the unincorporated areas of the county:
A.
Length of temporary uses. A land use permit for a temporary use shall be valid for no more than thirty (30) non-consecutive days within a calendar year or one hundred and twenty (120) consecutive days. A minor land use permit for a temporary use shall expire at the end of each calendar year unless the approved one hundred and twenty (120) consecutive day period is permitted to extend into the subsequent year.
B.
Calendar year limitation. A property shall not have more than one (1) minor land use permit issued for a temporary use per calendar year and no more than one (1) minor land use permit for a temporary use issued on a property concurrently.
C.
Existing structures, infrastructure. All existing permanent structures and infrastructure shall be in compliance with applicable local, state, and federal statutes and regulations.
D.
New structures, facilities. New permanent structures and infrastructure necessary solely for the temporary use are prohibited.
III.
Measures to protect health and safety.
The temporary use shall not be detrimental to the property or infrastructure improvements in the surrounding area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare. There shall be no unduly burdensome police, fire, trash removal, or other public service demands caused by the special event.
IV.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicant shall submit the following documents and materials:
A.
Representation of the number of temporary use permits that have been issued for the subject property in the preceding year;
B.
Representation of the maximum number of tickets to be sold or the maximum number of visitors to be allowed entrance to the property for the temporary use, including hosts, guests, staff employees and independent contractors;
C.
Proposed days and hours of the temporary use;
D.
Operating plan. A plan for the method of operations, including without limitation timing for the cleanup of the site and removal of all trash;
E.
If the proposed maximum number of people in paragraph B above is more than five hundred (500), a traffic impact study acceptable to the planning engineer, including but not limited to:
1.
Anticipated traffic volumes and directional distributions; and
2.
Identification of circumstances or times when permits for extra-legal vehicles or loads shall be required pursuant to chapter 74.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-22, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020