Chapter 63 Administration and Review of Roles
Sec. 63-4 Board of adjustment
I.
Established.
There is hereby created a board of adjustment pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 30-28-117 and 30-28-118.
II.
Membership, qualifications and terms.
The board shall appoint the
BOA
. The BOA shall consist of five (5) members, two (2) of whom shall be members of the
planning commission
, or their designated alternates, who should also be members of the PC. The board shall also designate alternates for the non-PC members of the BOA.
A.
To the maximum extent possible, the BOA shall represent a broad range of interests in the community and shall be drawn from different geographic locations within the county.
B.
Qualifications and terms of office.
1.
Each member of the BOA shall be a resident of the county.
2.
Each member should have demonstrated interest and experience in land use planning, architecture, landscaping, engineering, construction, real estate, law, agriculture or public policy.
3.
Each member shall have knowledge of the community.
4.
Each member shall demonstrate a dedication to public service.
5.
Appointment of PC members shall be on an annual basis, and the board may appoint alternate members to serve in the absence of regular members. The term for non-PC members shall be three (3) years and until their respective successors have been appointed. The members’ initial terms shall be staggered so that the term of at least one (1) regular member will expire each year.
C.
Compensation. Members of the BOA shall receive no compensation for their services, except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred, subject to applicable provisions of the state statutes and procedures for reimbursement of expenses as approved by the board.
D.
Records of proceedings. The BOA shall keep a record of its proceedings, which record shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the policies and procedures of the county.
E.
Removal and filling of vacancies.
1.
Members of the BOA may be removed for nonperformance of duty or misconduct, as determined by the board. If a vacancy occurs on the BOA, the board shall appoint a member to fill the unexpired term.
2.
Alternate members of the BOA are hereby authorized by the board to perform the duties of regular members who are temporarily unable to act due to absence, illness, interest in any matter before the commission, or any other cause. The services of alternate members shall be alternated, where practicable, and, to achieve this goal, the director shall contact alternate members to achieve a five (5) member BOA, whenever possible.
F.
Quorum. Four (4) members shall constitute a quorum of the BOA.
G.
Action of the BOA shall be by a majority vote of those voting except as may be otherwise required by statute or below. Four (4) votes shall be required to overturn an administrative decision or to approve a variance.
III.
Specific powers and duties.
The BOA shall have those administrative and review roles as shown in Table 66-15 and as otherwise provided in this code.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 63-4, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020