Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE V. LIMITED ACCESS Roads
Sec. 54-241 Offenses by persons failing to obey access restrictions or road closures
I.
Generally; signs.  The Board of County Commissioners may adopt resolutions, pursuant to La Plata County Code Section 42-94, restricting the long-term access of any county road as determined necessary to preserve public health, safety and welfare of residents and travelling public.
Official signs or other traffic control devices conforming to standards as required by state law will be installed at or upon the entrances to the county roads or portions and parts thereof that are affect by such closures or restriction, as is determined to be most appropriate by the county engineer and county road supervisor. Such signs or other devices must be installed prior to enforcing penalties for failure to observe such access restrictions.
II.
Unlawful use of county roads.  It is unlawful for any person to access or use a county road that has been closed to vehicular or non-vehicular traffic or on which access is otherwise restricted in any manner that contravenes or ignores such closures or restrictions.
III.
Offenses by persons controlling or directing vehicles.  It is unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit the operation of such vehicle upon a county road in any manner contrary to law.
IV.
Offenses by other persons.  Every person who commits, conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of any act declared in this article to be a crime or traffic infraction, whether individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as principal, agent, or accessory, is guilty of such offense or liable for such infraction. Further, every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly, or willfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits, or directs another to violate any provision of this article is likewise guilty of such offense or liable for such infraction.
V.
Enforcement.
A.
Traffic infraction; fine and penalty.  This section may be enforced by a law enforcement officer or any other persons or positions designated by the Board of County Commissioners as enforcement officers. Pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 30-11-101 and 30-15-402, any person or entity that violates this section shall be guilty of a traffic infraction.
For each separate violation, the fine for the first offense and for any subsequent offense shall be a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a maximum of no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
1.
Fine Schedule
.  The following graduated fine schedule shall be applied for violations of this article:
First Offense                                                   $  50.00
Second Offence                                              $100.00
Third and Subsequent Offense                 $100.00 + court appearance
In addition to the aforementioned fines and penalties, any person violating this section shall be subject to the statutory surcharges of ten dollars ($10.00) for the Victims and Witnesses Assistance and Law Enforcement Fund. This surcharge shall be paid to the clerk of court by each person convicted of violating this ordinance. The clerk shall transmit the moneys to the fund in accordance with C.R.S. § 30-15-402(2).
B.
Penalty assessment notice. When a person violates this section 54-241, the arresting officer shall issue the person a penalty assessment notice and release him upon its terms. The penalty assessment notice shall be a summons and complaint containing identification of the alleged offender, including but not limited to their driver’s license number or similar credentials; recitation of the license plate of the vehicle involved; specification of the offense and applicable fine; a requirement that the alleged offender pay the fine or appear to answer the charge at a specified time and place; and other matters reasonably adopted effectuating the purpose of this article.
C.
Acknowledgement or denial of guilt. If the person given a penalty assessment notice chooses to acknowledge his or her guilt and are guilty of a first or second offense for violating this section, they
may
pay the specified fine in person or by mail at the place and within the time specified in the notice. If he or she chooses not to acknowledge his guilt or is charged with a third or subsequent offense of this section, the defendant shall appear as required in the notice. Upon trial, if the alleged offender is found guilty, the fine imposed shall be that specified in the notice for the offense of which he was found guilty, but customary court costs may be assessed against him in
addition
to the fine.
(
Ord. No. 2021-04, §  06/08/2021
)
Effective on: 7/11/2021