Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-9 Modifications to licensed premises
This section is inapplicable to business operators.
I.
Compliance required.
After issuance of a license, the licensee shall not materially change, alter or modify the licensed premises without complying with this section 7-9. All applicable fees shall be submitted with the notices or applications required by this section. No fees are required for notices made pursuant to
subsection (II). The fees required for notices required under subsection (III) or application required by subsection (IV)
shall be the same.
II.
Modifications requiring notice to county after modification.
While approval from the local licensing authority or staff shall not be required for the following physical changes, alterations or modifications to the licensed premises, licensees are required to provide notice to the staff of such modifications no later than fifteen (15) days after the date such changes, alterations or modifications are made.
Additional documentation, such as an updated building plan or narrative may also be required, as set forth in Table 7-9 below or upon request of licensing staff. For purposes of this section, when an updated building plan is required, it will not need to be professionally prepared.
A.
List of modifications.
1.
Addition of water-based concentrate production at a licensed marijuana cultivation facility.
2.
Any increase or decrease in the total physical size or capacity of the licensed premises. If any such increase or decrease is temporary in nature, the licensee shall indicate the anticipated beginning and ending date for such modification. Intermittent uses delineated on the building plan shall not constitute an increase or decrease in the size or capacity of the licensed premises.
3.
Installation, alteration or replacement of electrical fixtures or equipment, when such installation, alteration, replacement or increase requires a permit from the
CSEB
.
4.
Increases to the number of marijuana plants or patients, as applicable, beyond that permitted and approved by the
MED
.
B.
Approvals from departments and outside agencies.
Nothing in this provision shall be deemed to relieve a licensee from an obligation it may have to obtain approvals or permits from the MED or from any other agency, including but not limited to, local fire districts,
LPCPH
,
or the county
’s
community development department. It shall be the licensee’s obligation to obtain necessary approvals or permits, as needed.
C.
Notification of MED and other agencies.
If requested by the licensee, staff may provide information to the MED indicating that local licensing authority approval is not required for the changes, alterations or modifications described in this subsection (II) and that the county will neither approve nor deny such modification requests. The local licensing authority and its staff reserves the right to notify other departments or outside agencies and provide and share information with such department and agencies about such changes, alterations or modifications.
D.
Failure to comply.
Failure to provide notice to the local licensing authority’s staff, to provide additional documentation, or to obtain any necessary approvals or permits shall be a violation of these regulations and shall be grounds for enforcement action.
III.
Modifications requiring prior notice and approval.
Licensees shall notify the local licensing authority’s staff prior to making any of the following material physical changes, alterations or modifications to the licensed premises, including temporary changes, alterations or modifications.
A.
List of modifications.
1.
Addition of off-premises storage facility.
2.
Installation or removal of a walk-up or drive-up window at a licensed premises.
B.
Approvals from departments and outside agencies.
As part of the notification process, satisfactory evidence must be provided that demonstrates that the licensee has obtained the approval of the proposed modification from the MED, county community development department, applicable fire authority or district, CSEB, LPCPH,
CDPHE
, and
EPA
, as necessary. Any conditions or limitations of approval must be provided with the notification. Staff may verify any or all of the information provided with the applicable department or agency.
C.
Notification of MED.
If requested by the licensee, staff may provide evidence of conditional approval of the proposed modifications to the MED once all necessary approvals and comments from agencies other than the MED are provided to staff.
D.
Timeframe to complete modifications.
Licensees shall only be permitted to complete conditionally approved modifications once evidence of MED approval for the same proposed modification is provided to licensing staff. After all conditions of approval have been satisfied and modifications are permitted to commence, the licensee shall have one (1) year to complete the approved modifications. Failure to complete the modifications within one (1) year, without approval of an extension for good cause, shall result in expiration and revocation of local licensing authority approval for the modification.
E.
Failure to comply.
Failure to obtain necessary approvals from agencies or to provide the required notification and evidence of necessary approvals to staff prior to changes, alterations or modifications set forth in this subsection (III) shall be grounds for enforcement action.
IV.
Modifications requiring application and prior approval of local licensing authority.
Physical changes, alterations or modifications that materially or substantially alter the licensed premises or the usage of the licensed premises, and require prior approval from the local licensing authority or its staff include:
A.
List of modifications.
​​​​​​
1.
[Reserved]
B.
Approval of application.
At least one controlling beneficial owner shall sign all applications. However, other owners with day-to-day management authority may be required to sign authorizations, requests to release information and other forms required by licensing authority staff. Staff designated by the local licensing authority may determine whether the proposed modification will meet all requirements of the
marijuana code
, the
marijuana rules
and all applicable regulations under this article.
1.
The local licensing authority or its staff may request that a fire authority or district, the county community development department, county building department, CSEB, LPCPH, CDPHE, EPA or any other relevant agency or department, comment on or investigate and provide documentation or approval of the proposed modifications.
2.
Licensing staff may conditionally approve or approve the modification application administratively, without the need for a meeting of the local licensing authority. If staff recommends denial of an application for modification or recommends conditions of approval that are not agreeable to the applicant, the licensee may request a determination on its application from the local licensing authority at a public meeting.
C.
Notification of MED.
If requested by the licensee, once the application has been conditionally approved, staff may provide evidence of conditional approval of the proposed modifications to the MED.
D.
Timeframe to complete modifications.
Only after evidence of MED approval for the same proposed modifications is provided to staff shall licensees be permitted to complete the conditionally approved modifications. After all conditions of approval have been satisfied and modifications are permitted to commence, the licensee shall have one (1) year to complete the approved modifications. Failure to complete the modifications within one (1) year, without approval of an extension for good cause, shall result in expiration and revocation of local licensing authority approval for the modification.
E.
Failure to comply.
Failure to obtain necessary approvals prior to changes, alterations or modifications set forth in this subsection (IV) shall be grounds for enforcement action.
V.
Other modifications; local licensing authority review.
If the licensee proposes to make a physical change, alteration or modification and the licensee is unclear about what notice or approval is required, the licensee shall contact licensing staff to determine whether prior notice or an application is required. If staff and the licensee are unable to agree about the applicable requirements for a proposed modification, the licensee may request a determination from the local licensing authority at a public meeting regarding the type of modification involved.
Table 7-9: Required Approvals for Modifications
Category of Modification
Documents and Department or Agency Approval Required
Sec. 7-9 (II)(A)(1) - Addition of water-based concentrate production.
A narrative, updated building plan and evidence of approval from the MED must be provided to staff.
Sec. 7-9 (II)(A)(2) - Increase/decrease in physical size or capacity.
A narrative, updated building plan, evidence of issuance of a permit from the county community development department, if needed, and approval from the MED must be provided to staff.
Sec. 7-9 (II)(A)(3) - Installation, alteration or replacement of electrical fixtures or equipment when permit required.
A narrative, updated building plan, evidence of permit issuance and inspection from CSEB, and approval from MED must be provided to staff. If no changes to the building plan are required, then no building plan must be provided, but the licensee must verify this information in a written statement.
Sec. 7-9 (II)(A)(4) - Increasing number of marijuana plants or patients.
A narrative and evidence of approval from the MED must be provided to staff.
Sec. 7-9 (III)(A)(1) - Off-premises storage.
A narrative, updated building plan, and evidence of approval or issuance of a permit and inspection must be provided to staff from the county community development department and the MED.
Sec. 7-9(III)(A)(2) – Installation of walk-up or drive-up window
A narrative, updated building plan, and evidence of approval or issuance of a permit and inspection must be provided to staff from the county community development department and the MED.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, § 7-9, 06/10/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, § 7-9, 12/08/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, § 7-9, 03/07/2017
)
(
Res. No.
2023-27
, § 7-9, 11/21/2023
)
Effective on: 1/1/2024