Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE II PROCUREMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
County
procurements
must be authorized and supported by available and
budgeted
funds. To ensure that these and other procurement criteria are delegated and satisfied, responsibilities of various individuals are defined in this article II.
Sec. 20-27 Specific comments or approvals required
Certain purchases are of such a nature that the county’s need and ability to properly use the item or
service
purchased should be evaluated by the appropriate department head prior to purchase. In such instances, regardless of the
procurement
method followed, including a
small purchase
, comments from or signature approval of the appropriate department head, as set forth below, shall be obtained prior to
solicitation
. This approval indicates that the purchase is compatible with but not duplicative of existing county resources. Additional department head purchase approval is required in the following instances:
I.
Technology purchases
including computer hardware, copy machines and software, regardless of price, must be reviewed by the director of the county’s information technology (“IT”) department, or the director’s designee, prior to solicitation or purchase, in the case of a small purchase. The IT director will review each request to determine all systems issues, including compatibility, support, architectural standards, and implementation and integration capabilities. When no systemic issues are presented, the IT director’s approval should be reflected in the
purchase requisition
or other documentation. When the IT director expresses concerns over a proposed solicitation or purchase, the county manager may either approve or deny a department’s or elected official’s proposed technology purchase.
II.
Professional services involving county facilities
such as utilities, remote communications, custodial services, repairs and maintenance, and remodeling and changes to offices and work areas, including design and construction, must be approved by the director of general services, regardless of price.
III.
Purchases of insurance coverage
must be approved by the county manager or manager’s designee, regardless of price. Such coverage is not subject to competitive procurement, per section 20-31.
IV.
Retention of outside legal services
must be approved by the county attorney or district attorney, as appropriate. Such services are not subject to this procurement code.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-27, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021