Chapter 80: Enforcement and Penalties
Sec. 80-8 General provisions
I.
No waiver of statutory authority
. Nothing in this chapter is or shall be a waiver by the county of any statutory or common law authority including without limitation the authority identified in C.R.S. § 24-33.5-709 relating to local disaster emergencies.
II.
Burden of proof
. The burden of proof that an activity, development or a use complies with this code and all applicable conditions of approval or is legally nonconforming lies with the owner of the real property.
III.
Enforcement costs
. If the board affirms the director’s decision to issue a violation determination or stop order (or if either becomes final without an appeal), the costs of any county investigation of the violation and the costs of any hearing and board action, including reasonable attorney’s fees, shall be the responsibility of the owner of the real property and violator, jointly and severally, subject to court order.
IV.
Mitigation efforts
. Implementation of remedial efforts shall not relieve an owner’s, occupant’s or alleged violator’s responsibility to comply with all county standards and criteria or the project’s conditions of approval. Failure to conduct the project in compliance with county standards and criteria or all conditions of approval shall be deemed a land use permit violation.
V.
Land use application and violations
. An application for a land use permit, road access permit or driveway permit shall not be initiated or accepted for submittal if the property subject to the application is in violation of this code or the building code unless the purpose of the application is to correct the violation. The director may suspend any enforcement action prior to such action being heard by the board if a complete application to correct or resolve the violation has been submitted. A review fee, in addition to the application fee, shall be collected whether a permit is issued based on the application. The review fee shall be equal to three (3) times the amount of the application fee. Neither the payment of the review fee nor the filing of an application shall exempt any person from compliance with all other requirements of this code or relieve any person from any other enforcement remedies available to the county.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 80-8, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020