Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-7 Commercial outdoor storage and sales areas
I.
Applicability.
These standards apply to any land use permit applications proposing outside storage or sales areas that are generally open to members of the public except for those uses set forth in section 66-5.II. Commercial outdoor storage includes but is not limited to uses where merchandise or equipment is stored outdoors, and areas accessory to commercial uses where seasonal sales, services, or other commercial activities are conducted outdoors. Standards in this section do not apply to residential and agricultural properties unless requesting establishment of a commercial facility.
II.
Standards specific to commercial outdoor storage and sales areas.
A.
Buffering. Commercial outdoor storage and sales areas shall provide buffering to residential uses which may be accomplished through walls, fencing, berming, screening or landscaping as set forth in section 70-17. Screening shall be a minimum of six (6) feet high, or more if necessary to adequately screen the equipment or function.
1.
Where a fence or wall is used to buffer these areas, the materials shall be opaque, non-reflective and of similar quality to those used on the principal building.
2.
Where landscaping is used to screen these areas, plant materials shall include evergreens, to create a year-round screen, and shall be planted and maintained to provide an effective screen within three (3) years.
B.
Setbacks. The following minimum setbacks shall apply to all facilities associated with a commercial outdoor storage or sales areas subject to this section:
1.
Permanent facilities shall be no closer than one hundred (100) feet from an existing residential dwelling unit;
2.
No commercial outdoor storage or sales area shall be placed or maintained within a public right-of-way.
C.
Surfacing requirements. Commercial outdoor storage and sales areas shall be surfaced with gravel, asphalt, or concrete.
D.
Storage of hazardous materials. Flammable or explosive materials shall be stored in accordance with federal, state and local fire codes and warning signs shall be posted.
III.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicant shall submit a site plan containing these additional requirements, whether existing or proposed:
A.
Locations for the storage and sale of merchandise outdoors;
B.
Locations for the storage of hazardous materials.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-7, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020