Chapter 74: Road and Bridge Standards and Permits
Sec. 74-8 Driveway standards and permits
I.
Purpose
. The intent of this section is to provide safe ingress and egress for driveways and adequate access for emergency responders to protect the health, safety and welfare of the community, while recognizing the need for flexibility in driveway development.
II.
Applicability
. A driveway permit shall be obtained from the department of public works prior to issuance of a final building permit or certificate of occupancy for a residential use except:
A.
A driveway permit is not required for:
1.
Development of ADU’s classified as director determinations;
2.
Redevelopment or reconstruction of an existing dwelling unit;
3.
Development of a dwelling unit that is performed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a valid building permit issued prior to April 1, 2015;
4.
Development of a primary dwelling unit on a parcel that obtained a driveway permit from the county and constructed the driveway prior to April 1, 2015;
5.
Development of a dwelling unit that utilizes a driveway that is less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet in length and intersects with a private road or public non-county road;
6.
Development of a primary dwelling unit on a parcel that intersects with County Road 124 at a point north of where the county's winter maintenance terminates shall not be required to obtain a driveway permit; however, such driveway shall be required to obtain a permit prior to commencing work within the right-of-way.
B.
The development of a public road that connects with a county road shall obtain a driveway permit to establish legal access but shall otherwise be exempt from the driveway standards of this section.
C.
If the use of an existing driveway changes or there is a change in use of the property which the driveway serves, a new driveway permit may be required. Such changes include, but are not limited to, changes in the use or type of business, expansion of an existing use, change in property division or the creation of new parcels.
III.
Maintenance
. Where appropriate, a corporation, perpetual association or other suitable means must be established for maintenance of a private driveway.
IV.
Driveway standards
. Driveways that require permits and nonresidential driveways shall meet the following standards:
A.
Surface width. For horizontal tangent (straight) sections of driveway, the surface width shall be twelve (12) feet, with two (2) foot clear zones on each side that are free from unmovable obstructions. For curved sections with a centerline radius of one hundred fifty (150) feet or less, the surface width shall be sixteen (16) feet with two (2) foot clear zones that are free from unmovable obstructions with appropriate tapering from tangent sections. Curved sections that are less than one hundred (100) feet in length, as measured along the centerline, and that do not exceed a ninety (90) degree change in direction, shall be permitted to maintain a surface width of twelve (12) feet.
B.
Surface. To ensure that a driveway can support a sixty thousand (60,000) pound vehicle, minimum front single axle = 24,000 pounds; minimum rear single axle = 32,000 pounds, the driveway surface, including turnouts and turnarounds, shall be constructed of a minimum four (4) inch of three-quarter (¾) inch minus aggregate surface placed on a compacted subgrade material, from the intersection of the roadway to the primary structure(s). The subgrade shall be scarified and compacted to a minimum depth of twelve (12) inches below finished grade and shall be free of roots, sod, weeds, wood, construction debris, ice, snow, other frozen materials and deleterious matter. The clear zones are not required to meet a surfacing requirement but shall not exceed a four (4) foot horizontal to one (1) foot vertical slope. The surfacing requirements are minimum standards and an applicant may choose to exceed these standards.
C.
Cut and fill slopes. Cut slopes shall not be greater (steeper) than one (1) foot horizontal to one (1) foot vertical and four (4) feet high. Fill slopes shall not be greater (steeper) than two (2) feet horizontal to one (1) foot vertical and four (4) feet high. A slope that exceeds these minimum cut or fill requirements shall either be certified as stable in its current finished state by a professional engineer or shall be designed by a professional engineer.
D.
Maximum grade. The maximum grade shall not exceed twelve (12) percent for horizontal tangent (straight) sections. For curved sections with a centerline radius of one hundred fifty (150) feet or less, the grade shall not exceed ten (10) percent. Curved sections that are less than one hundred (100) feet in length, as measured along the centerline, and that do not exceed a ninety (90) degree change in direction, shall be permitted to maintain a maximum grade of twelve (12) percent.
E.
Overhead clearance. The minimum overhead clearance shall be thirteen (13) feet, six (6) inches for the width of the entire surface and clear zone. All overhead impediments, including but not limited to wires, trees and gates, shall remain clear from the intersection of the access road to the termination of the driveway.
F.
Access to a legal property. No driveway shall be permitted or otherwise approved unless it provides access to a lot that was legally created and has obtained all required land use permits.
G.
Legal access. Evidence of legal access across other properties shall be provided through an express grant or a written description of the prescriptive use.
H.
Interior curves. Minimum thirty (30) foot radius inside curves shall be provided.
I.
Turnarounds. Driveways that are longer than four hundred (400) feet shall provide a turnaround within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the nearest point of the primary dwelling unit. The turnaround shall be designed and constructed to allow a thirty-five (35) foot long emergency vehicle, single rear axle commercial chassis pumper, to turn around. Where topography or the length of the driveway influences the location of the turnaround, the public works director is encouraged to contact the applicable fire district for comment on the proposed location. After receipt of comment from the applicable fire district, the public works director may waive or reduce the requirement for a turnaround.
J.
Turnouts. Driveways that are longer than eight hundred (800) feet shall provide a turnout every four hundred (400) feet as measured from the access road. Turnouts shall meet the surface requirements of this section, shall be sixty (60) feet in length and shall provide a total of twenty (20) feet in surface width (including driveway) with reasonable tapering and two (2) foot clear zones on each side. Driveways that are one thousand (1,000) feet or less in length and allow an unobstructed line of sight from the adjacent road to the structure shall not be required to construct turnouts. Where topography or the length of the driveway influences the location(s) of the turnout, the public works director is encouraged to contact the applicable fire district for comment on the proposed location(s). After receipt of comment from the applicable fire district, the public works director may reduce the number of required turnouts or vary the locations of the turnouts.
K.
Drainage. Driveway design and construction shall not adversely affect the drainage on a roadway or any adjacent properties.
L.
Flood prone areas. Driveways within flood prone areas shall comply with the requirements in chapter 78.
M.
Bridges. Driveways that utilize bridges shall comply with the standards for driveways as identified in subsection 74-8 and the flood hazard area requirements as identified in chapter 78.
N.
Costs. The cost of all driveway construction, reconstruction and maintenance, including any portion in a public or private right-of-way, including but not limited to culvert design, installation and replacement, shall be the responsibility of the owner, unless provided otherwise in a separate written agreement.
O.
Intersection of a driveway and roadway.
1.
Driveways that intersect with a county road shall slope away from the shoulder of the road surface at a minimum grade of at least two (2) percent for the first ten (10) feet. All driveways shall not exceed five (5) percent for the first fifteen (15) feet from the intersection with the shoulder of the road.
2.
The axis of the driveway at the intersection with the roadway shall be no less than a sixty (60) degree angle to the centerline.
3.
The intersection of the driveway and the roadway shall be at least fifty (50) feet from any other intersection of any roadways. The public works director may allow a driveway within fifty (50) feet of an intersection if the driveway is located on a local or low ADT road and there is a determination that the location would not adversely impact the safety of the traveling public.
4.
The public works director shall determine if a culvert is required at the intersection of a driveway or road and a county road. If a culvert is required, the minimum culvert size shall be fifteen (15) inches along a county road and twelve (12) inches along all other roads and the minimum culvert cover shall be eight (8) inches. Culverts along county roads shall be constructed of metal or concrete and shall maintain a slope consistent with the roadside drainage. The public works director may require that a larger culvert and culvert cover is required based on the location of the proposed driveway.
5.
Sight distance along a county or state access road at the intersection of the driveway shall meet the Colorado State Highway Access Code minimum standards. Sight distance along all other roads at the intersection of the driveway shall provide adequate sight distance in both directions along the roadway in order to maneuver safely and without interfering with roadway traffic. The public works director may require a professional engineer to certify that there is adequate sight distance in both directions along the roadway.
6.
House addressing signs shall be visible from the intersection of the roadway and driveway. Such signs shall be made of a non-combustible and reflective material that contrasts in color with the background. Numbers shall be a minimum of four (4) inches high and shall have a minimum stroke width of half (1/2) an inch.
7.
A maximum of one (1) driveway shall be permitted for a lot with less than one hundred (100) feet of frontage. The public works director may allow for more than one (1) driveway for lots with one hundred (100) or more feet of frontage after deciding that an additional driveway does not adversely impact the safety of the traveling public.
P.
If existing structures such as pavement, drainage structures and ditches are to be modified, such modifications shall be incorporated into the driveway design.
V.
Procedure and evaluation.
A.
Application and inspection. An application for a driveway permit shall be obtained from the public works department. After review of the driveway design and determination for compliance with section 74-8, the public works director may issue conditional approval of a driveway permit. A conditional approval shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of approval. Upon completion of driveway construction, the owner shall contact the public works department for a final inspection. The public works director shall issue a final approval of the driveway permit if the inspection demonstrates compliance with the applicable standards. A final building permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued prior to final approval of a driveway permit if the public works director determines that seasonal conditions prevent the immediate surfacing or completion of the driveway. In such case, a final approval shall be obtained when the seasonal conditions allow the surfacing to be completed, which shall not be more than six (6) months after the issuance of a final building permit or land use permit, whichever is issued first.
B.
Waivers.
1.
Request for waiver. If an applicant desires a waiver of any driveway standard, the applicant shall submit a written request to the public works director. Upon receipt, the public works director shall contact the applicable fire district for comment and the fire district shall have ten (10) business days from the date of receipt of the request to provide the public works director comments. The applicable fire district shall be the fire district that provides emergency response to the property served by the proposed driveway. Comments received from the fire district shall be reviewed and placed in the file. The public works director may grant a waiver from the standard no earlier than twenty-one (21) days after submittal of the request to the fire district. The public works director shall consider all timely comments received from the fire district prior to reaching a final decision. Any waiver granted by the public works director shall be made in writing and provided to the applicant and the fire district.
2.
Criteria for public works director determination. The public works director may grant a request for a waiver if the public works director determines each of the following have been satisfied:
a.
Topography challenges or other site-specific constraints make it extremely difficult to comply with the standards;
b.
The granting of a waiver will not be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, including the occupants of the structure(s) served by the driveway.
3.
Mitigating factors to consider. If the fire district comments that granting the waiver request would present health, safety or welfare concerns, the public works director may consider, but is not limited to, the following factors when determining whether to grant the waiver request:
a.
Plans for and implementation of substantial defensible space measures, as identified in the State of Colorado Forest Service, Creating Wildfire-Defensible Zones Guide;
b.
Provision of adequate on-site water supply capable of supplying fire flow for fire protection, as set forth in chapter 34 of the La Plata County Code;
c.
Design and construction of internal automatic fire sprinkler systems designed and installed in compliance with chapter 34 of the La Plata County Code for all developments served;
d.
Paving of the driveway;
e.
Use of a substantial amount of fire-resistant building construction types and designs recognized for fire adapted communities for all developments served.
4.
Limitation of extent of waiver and conditions. The public works director may limit the extent of a waiver to the degree necessary to comply with 74-8.V.B. In addition, the public works director may condition the waiver on the implementation of measures that mitigate health, safety, or welfare concerns.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 74-8, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020