Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
La Plata
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-271 et seq.
State Law reference—
Emergency medical services, C.R.S. § 25-3.5-101 et seq.
DIVISION 2. AMBULANCE SERVICE AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Ambulance service
license
required, C.R.S. § 25-3.5-301 et seq.;
ambulance
permit
required, C.R.S. § 25-3.5-301(2).
Sec. 26-95. Authorization to operate application.
An application for an
ambulance service
authorization to operate shall be submitted in writing to the
Board of County Commissioners
and the county emergency medical services council. An application to renew an existing authorization to operate shall be submitted at least ninety (90) days prior to expiration of the existing authorization to operate in order to avoid a gap in authorization.  All applications shall be filed with the licensing coordinator provided the following information and documents are supplied:
I.
The name and address of the owner of each ambulance.
II.
The name and address of the person/agency applying for the authorization to operate, referred to in this section as "the applicant."
III.
The person who will be in charge of the operation of the ambulance service.
IV.
The location and description of the place or places from which it is intended to operate an ambulance service
and evidence of compliance with any applicable land use, zoning, and building code regulations
.
V.
The primary service area to be served by the proposed ambulance service.
VI.
Evidence of the insurance policies as set forth in section 26-93.
VII.
Names of quick response teams, volunteer rescue groups, standby services and similar groups with which the ambulance service has cooperative or mutual aid agreements.
VIII.
Type of service to be provided, i.e., basic life support, basic life support with advanced cardiac life support equipment, or advanced life support with advanced cardiac life support personnel.
IX.
Letter stating that the agency would be a member and be involved in the county emergency medical services council.
X.
A copy of all current applicable state-issued ambulance service licenses and ambulance inspections. Applicant shall specifically include and identify the nature and extent of any waivers approved by the state.
XI.
A signed copy of the county’s form memorandum of understanding.
Res. No.
1997-59
, § II(5), 10/10/1997; Res. No.
2024-23
, §  06/25/2024
Effective on: 7/1/2024