Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-36 Bid preferences
I.
BOCC intent.
The
BOCC
intends to utilize the
goods
and
services
provided by
local and regional businesses
whenever possible, so long as selection does not result in a significant increase in cost to the county, and is not otherwise determined to be inapplicable in accordance with the provisions of this section.
II.
Preference authorized
. Whenever a
contract
is
awarded
for goods or services procured under the
simplified purchase
or
standard purchase
procedures outlined in this article III, a local and regional business preference shall be allowed unless specifically waived by the finance director at the time an
IFB
,
RFP
or
RFQ
is let.
III.
Local and regional preference.
The
local business
preference will be the lesser of: (1) five (5) percent or one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) of the purchase price; or (2) five (5) percent of the final score for a
bidder
, based on the award/evaluation criteria used to select a
qualified vendor
. The regional business preference will be the lesser of: (1) two (2) percent or forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) of the purchase price; or (2) two (2) percent of the final score for a vendor based on the award/evaluation criteria used to select a qualified
vendor
. Any bidder or offeror who seeks to claim a local or regional business designation must include a written request to the county for the same, with specific information evidencing the right to seek such designation, as part of its bid or
proposal.
IV.
Green purchasing.
Pursuant to the county’s Environmental Policy, Policy No. V.11, as amended, where desirable, the procurement division may establish a price-preference of five (5) percent for
environmentally preferable products
by including a preference statement and standard by which to achieve preference in a specific IFB, RFP or other solicitation.
V.
State mandated processes and preferences.
Colorado law dictates solicitation and purchasing requirements and preferences in the following specific instances, which shall control over any contrary provisions of this
code
.
A.
Stationery and office supplies.
In-state stationery supplies, as defined in C.R.S. § 30-11-110, shall be preferred over out-of-state purchases when the net cost does not exceed the cost of procurement and delivery from bidders outside the state.
B.
Work on county highways.
Contracts for work on county highways for more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), as such amount may be modified pursuant to C.R.S. § 43-2-209, as amended, must be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder; provided, that the county reserves the right to reject any bids proffered.
C.
Public improvements.
Contract for public projects, as defined by C.R.S. § 30-20-1103, will comply with the requirements of Part 11 of Article 20 of Title 30. No cost-plus a percentage of cost contracts will be permitted.
D.
Auditors.
The auditor conducting the annual audit of the financial statements of the county for each fiscal year must be a certified public accountant licensed to practice in Colorado as an individual, partnership or professional corporation, pursuant to article 2 of title 12 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. All vendors submitting a bid or proposal for such services must provide evidence that employees meeting the definition of an auditor in C.R.S. § 29-1-602 will conduct such audits during the applicable term of a proposed contract.
VI.
No preference given in certain circumstances.
No preference shall be given under this section if the finance director determines, in the finance director’s sole discretion, that awarding a contract in compliance with the preference provisions of this rule: (1) may cause a denial of state or federal money that would otherwise be available; (2) may otherwise be inconsistent with any requirement(s) applicable law or the purposes of this code; (3) may cause delay(s) in a procurement action that would compromise the public health, safety, or welfare of the county’s residents; (4) is redundant, as it would be in the case of a
sole source purchase
or
cooperative purchase
; or (5) is in direct conflict with federal
grant
or
procurement
procedures.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-36, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021