Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-8 Renewals
Table 7-8: Typical Review Process  for
Renewal Applications
(for illustrative purposes)
Pre-Application Meeting with Staff (Mandatory)
↓
Submit Complete Application to Staff
↓
Solicitation of Comments from Law Enforcement
↓
Staff Review and Recommendation to LLA
↓
Public Notice (posting and applicant notice) – 10-day requirement
(* IF RECOMMENDATION IS FOR DENIAL)
↓
Administrative Approval or
LLA Meeting or Hearing on Application and Finding on Good Moral Character
↓                                                                                        ↓
Approval/Conditional Approval                                                         Denial
↓                                                                                        ↓
Satisfaction of Conditions of Approval                                       Right to Appeal (C.R.C.P. 106)
(including issuance of state license)
I.
Renewal applications.
An application for a renewal of a
license
shall be submitted on current state forms, together with additional forms required by the
county
. Applications shall be materially complete and accurate. At least one controlling beneficial owner shall sign all applications. However, other owners with day-to-day management authority may be required to sign authorizations, requests to release information and other forms required by licensing authority staff.
A complete copy of the state application must also be provided to the staff at the time such application is submitted and accepted by the MED. Staff may refuse to accept an incomplete application. Applications shall include the following documentation:
A.
Proof of the right to possess the premises
. Documents that demonstrate proof of possession of the proposed premises during the proposed renewal term, which may include a copy of a deed, lease, or contract that governs the terms and conditions of the occupancy of the premises for the period of the license.
B.
Building plan
. If modifications listed in
section 7-9
below have been made to a licensed premises since conditional approval of a license or the last renewal of the same, whichever occurred later, an updated building plan must be included as part of a renewal application if not already provided to staff. Further, all applicants will provide a building plan upon request of licensing staff, even if no modifications to the licensed premises have been made.
C.
Fees
.  All appropriate fees.
D.
Corporate good standing for the licensee
.  If the licensee is an entity, evidence of good standing in the State of Colorado and, as applicable, the equivalent document issued by the agency or entity that registers or licenses foreign entities for any applicant that is a foreign entity.
E.
Registered agent.
Any entity shall provide the name and contact information of their current registered agent to licensing staff.
F.
Agreement between business operator and other marijuana business.
Any new or amended operating agreement(s) between a marijuana business operator and other type of licensed marijuana business must be provided to licensing staff.
G.
Proof of state license for previous term.
Verification, by
local licensing authority
staff, that a license was issued and granted by the MED for the prior licensed term.
H.
Proof of additional license.
For every multiple of three (3) cultivation facility licenses in which a
person
is a controlling beneficial owner, the person must provide proof that they are also a controlling beneficial owner in at least one (1) marijuana store.
I.
Material safety data sheets.
Upon request, an updated
chemical
list or copies of MSDS or SDS sheets for all chemicals and chemical mixtures to be stored or used on a licensed premises.
J.
Compliance with applicable health and safety regulations
. Compliance with applicable health and safety regulations. For licensees other than business operators, proof of compliance with state health and safety regulations as set forth in the
marijuana rules
and any health standards adopted by the local licensing authority.
1.
Inspection within past twelve months.
If an inspection of the licensed premises has been conducted within twelve (12) months of the deadline for filing the renewal application, written comments from the county or its consultant, as applicable, stating that such inspection is deemed sufficient for purposes of review of the current application, together with a copy of the most recent inspection report, shall be accepted to demonstrate compliance with the health standards.
2.
No inspection within past twelve months; insufficient inspection.
a.
If no inspection of the licensed premises has been conducted within twelve (12) months of the deadline for filing the renewal application, or if the prior inspection is not deemed sufficient by the reporting agency, then an inspection demonstrating compliance with applicable health standards shall be required.
b.
If an inspection cannot be conducted prior to the date the local licensing authority considers the renewal application, through no fault of the applicant, applicants may submit comments from the county or its consultant, as applicable, that an inspection has been scheduled. Evidence of satisfactory completion of an inspection, within a timeframe set by the local licensing authority, will be a condition of approval of any renewed license.
K.
Fire authority or district approval.
Cultivation facilities, marijuana products manufacturers and any other licensee that is dually located with cultivation facilities, marijuana products manufacturers shall submit written comments or a letter from the appropriate fire authority or district demonstrating compliance with the fire code.
1.
Inspection within past twelve months.
If an inspection of the licensed premises has been conducted within twelve (12) months of the deadline for filing the renewal application, written comments from the appropriate fire authority or district stating that such inspection is deemed sufficient for purposes of review of the current application, together with a copy of the most recent inspection report, shall be accepted to demonstrate compliance with the fire code.
2.
No inspection within past twelve months; insufficient inspection.
a.
If no inspection has been conducted within twelve (12) months of the deadline for filing the renewal application, or if the prior inspection is not deemed sufficient by the appropriate fire authority or district, then an inspection demonstrating compliance with the fire code shall be required.
b.
If an inspection cannot be conducted prior to the date the local licensing authority considers the renewal application through no fault of the applicant, applicants may submit comments from the fire authority or district that an inspection has been scheduled. Evidence of satisfactory completion of an inspection, within a timeframe set by the local licensing authority, will be a condition of approval of any renewed license.
L.
Electrical approval.
For licensees other than business operators:
1.
If a licensed premises has been modified in any manner to increase the electrical load since conditional approval or last renewal of a license, whichever occurred last, applications shall include written comments, a letter, or an inspection report from a
CSEB
inspector that demonstrates the safety of the installation for the premises.
2.
All other licensed premises may include one (1) of the following:
a.
Written comments, a letter, or an inspection report from a CSEB inspector regarding the most recent inspection of the licensed premises that was conducted within twelve (12) months of the deadline for filing the renewal application.
b.
In the alternative, the applicant shall verify that no electrical changes have been made to the licensed premises since the date of the last inspection conducted by the CSEB. A copy of the inspection report relied on by the applicant or an electrician must be provided to staff.
M.
Additional information.
Any additional information or materials that the local licensing authority or its staff may require to determine whether a license should be renewed, including but not limited to fingerprints or proof of compliance with the
marijuana code
, the
marijuana rules
, or any regulations under this article. The additional information must be provided to staff no later than seven (7) days after the request is made to the applicant, unless otherwise specified by the local licensing authority. Failure to provide the requested evidence or information by the deadline may postpone the processing and review of the application and may be grounds for denial of the application.
N.
Waiver.
The local licensing authority may waive, at its sole discretion, any of the above submission requirements.
II.
Renewal application deadline.
A licensee shall apply for the renewal of an existing license by submitting a complete renewal application to staff not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration. If a licensee timely applies for the renewal of an existing license, local licensing authority staff may administratively continue the license beyond the expiration date while it completes the renewal licensing process.
III.
Continuing qualifications to hold license; good moral character review
.  The local licensing authority may review the good moral character and continuing qualifications of an applicant’s owners with
day-to-day management
authority to hold a license pursuant to the requirements of
section 7-6(III)
.  Local licensing authority staff may solicit comments from federal, state and local law enforcement agencies regarding any matters that are relevant to determine if a licensee is qualified to continue to hold a license pursuant to this article.  If the local licensing authority considers the information provided by federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, it shall also consider information submitted by the applicant, including but not limited to evidence of rehabilitation, character references, and educational, vocational and community achievements.
IV.
Administrative approval or local licensing authority review
.
A.
Administrative approval.
If no complaints have been filed against the licensee and no comments about any new matters or concerns from federal, state and local law enforcement agencies regarding the licensee or its owners with day-to-day management authority, local licensing authority staff may administratively renew an application without need for local licensing authority review, so long as the applicant agrees in writing to the proposed findings and conditions set forth by licensing staff.
B.
Local licensing authority review.
If there are any complaints against the licensee, matters or concerns disclosed by law enforcement, or if local licensing authority staff does not believe, for any reason, that a license should be approved without local licensing authority approval, including but not limited to disagreement over proposed findings and conditions, the application will be submitted to the local licensing authority for review and consideration. The local licensing authority may consider the renewal at a public meeting or, alternatively, hold a hearing if the requirements of
subsection (V)
are met.
V.
Hearing.
The local licensing authority may hold a public hearing on a renewal application, but only if complaints have been filed against the licensee, the licensee has a history of violations, or there are allegations against the licensee that would constitute good cause for non-renewal. The local licensing authority may deny an application based on a finding of good cause. Notice of the hearing shall be:
A.
Provided to the licensee at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing; and
B.
Posted on the licensed premises or place of business for a period of ten (10) days prior to the hearing, in the manner described in C.R.S. § 44-10-303(2), as amended.
VI.
Conditions.
The local licensing authority may place conditions upon a renewal license that are reasonably related to the furtherance and protection of the health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood in which the licensed premises or place of business is to be located and of the general public.
VII.
Late filing.
If a license has not yet expired, but no renewal application is filed at least thirty (30) days prior to its expiration date, a late renewal application may be filed upon payment of a non-refundable late fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon payment of the fee, the licensee may continue to operate until a final decision is made on the renewal application by the local licensing authority. However, failure to demonstrate good cause for the late filing may be grounds for denial of the license renewal.
VIII.
Failure to renew license prior to expiration.
A license is immediately invalid upon its expiration if the licensee fails to submit a renewal application and all required fees before the license expires. If the license expires, the licensee shall cease all operations at the marijuana business, and licensing staff will notify the MED.
A.
New license.
If a former licensee files a renewal application after the expiration date of a license, the application will be treated and processed as a new license application and the licensee shall not operate the marijuana business until a new license is approved by the local licensing authority, unless temporary reinstatement of the expired license is approved by the MED.
B.
Temporary reinstatement of license.
1.
A marijuana business that fails to submit a renewal application and remit all required fees prior to the license expiration date may request that the MED temporarily reinstate its expired license. A marijuana business may temporarily resume operations while its new local application is processed and reviewed by the local licensing authority, if:
a.
The business has applied with the local licensing authority seeking to obtain a new license to operate a marijuana business; and
b.
Any license or approval from MED is still valid or has been obtained, which may include an approved request to the MED to reinstate a licensed business’ expired license.
2.
Until a licensee submits an application for a new license with the local licensing authority and submits proof to staff that the MED has reinstated its expired state license, the licensee shall not operate the marijuana business.
3.
Operation of a marijuana business after its license expires and before the foregoing conditions are satisfied are grounds for an enforcement action against the licensee.
4.
Temporary reinstatement is not allowed for a surrendered or revoked license.
5.
Permission to temporarily resume operations does not guarantee approval of any new license application. If the new application is denied by either the state or local licensing authorities, or if the MED otherwise revokes the business’ right to temporarily operate, the licensee must immediately cease all operations.
IX.
License duration.
Unless duly revoked or suspended, renewed licenses shall run concurrently with the license renewed by the MED. This means that such license will expire on the same date as the current state license.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, §  06/20/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, §  12/18/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, §  03/07/2017
)
(
Res. No.
2017-08
, §  03/07/2017; Res. No. 2019-18, §  06/25/2019; Res. No.
2020-23
, §  05/26/2020; Res. No. 2021-11, §  04/13/2021
)
Effective on: 5/16/2021