Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-12 Noxious weed control plan
Noxious weeds represent a threat to the continued economic and environmental value of lands in the county. The purpose of this section is to establish standards designed to ensure that development does not contribute to the establishment of invasive, non-native weeds on lands within the county and to control the production and spread of noxious weeds on developing properties within the county, in conformance with C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101
et seq
: “The Colorado Noxious Weed Act.”
I.
Applicability.
While all properties are subject to Colorado laws pertaining to noxious weeds, the standards in this section apply to all projects that involve land disturbance, including subdivisions, major land use permits; and any development activity that requires a grading permit. All agricultural activities including but not limited to cleaning and maintaining ditches and canals, installations and repair of irrigation pipelines and construction of ponds shall be exempt.
II.
Weed control standards.
Development subject to this section shall submit a Site Revegetation and Weed Control Plan (WCP). The WCP shall describe the combination of methods that will be employed on the property to prevent the establishment of noxious weeds and to control the spread of noxious weeds. For properties involving extensive land disturbance (more than twenty (20) acres of land disturbed), the county may also require that the WCP provide for the long-term monitoring of the spread of weeds on the property, with periodic reporting by the applicant to the county on the effectiveness of the noxious weed prevention and control measures being employed.
A.
Targeted weed species. The targeted species of noxious weeds that shall be addressed in the WCP are those species listed on the La Plata County Noxious Weed List, which is available from the county.
B.
Prevention techniques. The WCP shall specify the combination of techniques the applicant will employ to prevent the further spread of noxious weeds that are already present on the property, and to prevent the establishment of new noxious species that do not currently occur on the site. Prevention can be accomplished by minimizing the amount of bare soil that is created as a result of land development; re-vegetating disturbed areas as soon after disturbance as possible; ensuring that weeds are not introduced through topsoil, gravel, equipment and irrigation water; and periodic inspection of the property after development, followed by eradication of small new infestations of weeds.
C.
Minimum revegetation standards. At a minimum, the WCP shall specify how revegetation and reclamation of disturbed areas will be accomplished. In all cases revegetation shall be completed within no more than one (1) calendar year after the date of substantial completion of soil disturbance, using appropriate native plant species as approved by the county. For phased projects, revegetation shall be completed within no more than one (1) calendar year after the date of substantial completion of soil disturbance related to each phase.
D.
Control techniques. Where targeted noxious weeds are present on a development site, the WCP shall also specify the combination of techniques the applicant will employ to control the spread of (and where possible, to eradicate) those weeds. These techniques include biological and chemical controls and mechanical or management practices. The most effective combination of such techniques available, as recommended annually by the Colorado State Weed Science Program, shall be employed on the property. The WCP shall specify the frequency with which such techniques will be applied, and the level of performance expected from the control program (that is, by how much the weed cover is planned to be reduced).
1.
Biological and chemical controls that may be employed to disrupt the growth of noxious weeds include the use of insects or grazing animals (such as goats) and the treatment of weeds with herbicides.
2.
Mechanical practices that may be employed to disrupt the growth of noxious weeds include tilling, mowing, hand-pulling, shoveling and chopping. Mechanical practices shall be employed prior to seed production and dispersal.
3.
Management practices that may be employed are those that support the growth of desired native plants over invasive species. Such practices include proper use of moisture, fertilization, re-seeding and crop rotation.
4.
Any new subdivision covenants shall include strategies to insure consistent application, enforcement and evaluation of the WCP.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 70-12, 09/14/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020