Chapter 98 SIGNS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18;
development
standards and specifications, ch. 74; land
use
and development
permits
, ch. 82; zoning, ch.106
ARTICLE II. DIRECTIONAL SIGNS AND BUSINESS PLAQUES
Sec. 98-9. Design.
All permitted
directional signs
and
business plaques
shall
be designed and installed in accordance with the following requirements:
Directional sign.
A directional sign shall consist of an assembly of one or two posts and a maximum of four authorized business plaques, depending upon engineering design specifications for the location.
The erection and maintenance of directional signs shall be the responsibility of the
county
or its designee.
All directional signs shall be provided and constructed in accordance with all
MUTCD
state and local requirements.
Business plaques.
Business plaques shall contain a name of the business and shall be attached to the directional sign.
Business plaques shall be rectangular in shape and have a blue reflective background with a white reflective legend and border.
The plaques shall be 48 inches wide and 18 inches high.
Each plaque shall contain no more than two lines of legend and
may
include one symbol.
The legend shall be white on a blue background. Content to the legend shall be limited to identification of the business, service, or activity, the mileage to the business, and the directional arrow. Legends shall not contain promotional advertising and all legends are subject to approval by the county or its designee.
The legend may contain nationally approved symbols for services. Standard general service symbols, and white recreational and cultural interest area symbols, as displayed in the MUTCD, may be used to indicate a general class of business.
Logos may be contained on plaques. The logo shall be reproduced in the colors and general shape consistent with customary
use
and any integral legend shall be in proportionate size. No logos shall resemble official
control
devices.
The plaque shall include a separate directional arrow and distance to the business to the nearest one-quarter mile.
The erection and maintenance of business plaques shall be the responsibility of the county or its designee.
(Res. No. 2011-16, § 1(Exh. A), 6-14-2011; Res. No. 2011-22, § 1, 7-19-2011)
Effective on: 7/19/2011