Chapter 18 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article II general provisions
Sec. 18-35  Scope and Administration
Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Residential Code and Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Building Code are deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
(
Res. No. 2004-15, § 1 (Exh. A), 05/24/2004; Res. No. 2017-33, § 18-35, 10/10/2017; Res. No. 2023-15, § 18-35, 06/06/2023
)
Section 104
Duties and Powers of
Building Official
104.1 General. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this
Code
and applicable provisions of federal and state law, where appropriate. For such purposes, he or she shall have all the powers granted to him or her pursuant to the law. However, any
guarantee
, representation, or warranty that all
buildings
and
structures
have been constructed in accordance with all provisions of this Code is expressly denied and disclaimed. This Code shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the responsibility of any
person
,
firm
, partnership, corporation, or other entity owning, operating, or controlling any building or structure, for any damage to persons or property caused by defects on or in such building or structure. The building official shall have the authority to interpret this Code and to adopt policies and procedures to clarify its provisions and their application.
104.2 Applications and
permits
. Subject to the provisions of this Code, the building official shall:
1. Receive and review applications, including all required
construction
documents and certifications of design professionals;
2. Issue or deny permits for the erection,
alteration
, demolition, or relocation of buildings and structures in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata
County
;
3. Inspect the
premises
for which such permits have been issued;
4.
Issue any certificates provided by this Code; and
5.
Otherwise enforce compliance with the provisions of this Code and applicable state or federal laws and regulations.
104.3 Notices and orders. The building official shall issue all necessary certificates, notices, orders, and other documents or communications to enforce compliance with this Code.
104.4 Inspections. The building official and/or duly appointed
agents
or employees of the Building
Department
shall make all required inspections, or the building official shall have the authority to accept reports of inspections by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The building official has discretion, at the expense of the
applicant
, to require and obtain any reports or opinions which he or she deems necessary to determine compliance with any provision of this Code.
104.5 Identification. The building official and/or duly appointed agents or employees of the Building Department, shall carry proper identification when inspecting buildings or structures pursuant to this Code.
104.6 Right of entry.
1. Permitted Premises.
Issuance of an active
building permit
authorizes the building official to enter areas of the subject building or structure, or its premises, to enforce Code provisions related to that permit, including the performance of any inspection provided for in section
18-35
(110) of this Code. Initial inspections shall be at the request of the
permittee
but, if the building official determines any follow-up or additional inspections are necessary, such follow-up or additional inspections may be conducted without notice to the permittee.
2. Non-permitted Premises.
Where a building or structure is not subject to an active building permit, but the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in the building or structure, or upon its premises, a condition which is contrary to or in
violation
of this Code and which makes the building, structure, or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the building official is authorized to enter the building, structure, or premises at reasonable times to inspect or otherwise perform the duties imposed by this Code, provided that if such building, structure, or premises is occupied, credentials shall be presented to the occupant(s) and entry requested. If such building, structure, or premises is unoccupied, the building official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner
or other person having charge or
control
of the building, structure, or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, or if the owner or person in charge of an unoccupied structure does not respond to the building official’s reasonable efforts to locate him or her, then the building official and his or her agents or employees may make recourse to any remedy provided by local, state, or federal law or regulation to secure entry to the building, structure, or premises.
104.7 Department records. The building official shall keep official records of applications received, permits and certificates issued, reports of inspections, and notices and orders issued consistent with La Plata County’s document retention policy.  Subject to La Plata County’s document retention policy, the building official shall keep an accurate account of all fees and other monies collected or received by the Building Department pursuant to this Code and any implementing resolution or ordinance, the names of the persons upon whose account the same were paid, the date and amount of payment, together with the location of the building or structure to which such payment relates.
104.8 Nonliability. The adoption of this Code shall not create any duty to any person, firm, corporation, or other entity with regard to enforcement or non-enforcement of this Code.  No person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall have any private right of action, claim, or civil liability remedy against La Plata County, the building official, the Building Department, or any officers, employees, or agents of La Plata County for any damages arising out of or in any way connected with the adoption, enforcement, or non-enforcement of this Code.  Nothing in this Code shall be construed to create any liability, or to waive any of the immunities, limitations on liability, or other provisions of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act, C.R.S. § 24-10-101
et seq.
, or to waive any immunities or limitations on liability otherwise available to La Plata County, and its commissions,
board
of review, or officers, employees, or agents.
104.9 Approved materials,
equipment
, and design. Materials, equipment, and devices approved by the building official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval, the manufacturer’s instructions, and the safety requirements of this Code. The provisions of this Code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this Code, provided any such alternative has been approved by the building official.  An alternative material, design or method of construction for a specific permit may be approved on a case by case basis where the building official finds that the proposed design or material is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the applicable provisions of this Code. Used materials, equipment, and devices may be used upon approval of the building official when sufficient documentation or information — as determined by the building official in the exercise of his or her discretion — is provided to demonstrate that their
use
will comply with the safety requirements of this Code.
104.10 Modifications. Whenever the building official determines, in the exercise of his or her discretion, that circumstances specific to a building, structure, or premises render compliance with and/or enforcement of any provision of this Code
impracticable
, the building official shall have the authority to consider and
grant
an application for modification of this Code’s provisions as to an individual building or structure. Before granting any such application for modification, the building official shall determine that the specific circumstances cited in the application render code compliance and/or enforcement impracticable, and that the modification requested will not materially lessen or weaken this Code’s requirements concerning health, accessibility, life and fire safety, or structural requirements. The details granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the Building Department pursuant to section 104.7.
104.11. Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this Code or any other applicable law, or evidence that any material, equipment, design, or other construction method does not conform to the requirements of this Code or any other applicable law, or to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the building official shall have the authority, at the expense of the applicant, to require expert opinions or tests as evidence of compliance.
Standards
and methods for any required expert opinions or tests shall be as specified in this Code or as required by the building official in the exercise of his or her discretion.  Where applicable, expert opinions or tests shall be procured from an approved agency and/or design professional. Such expert opinions and/or test results shall be retained by the building official for the period required for retention of
public
records, pursuant to section 104.7.
Effective on: 12/11/2017