Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE II PROCUREMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
County
procurements
must be authorized and supported by available and
budgeted
funds. To ensure that these and other procurement criteria are delegated and satisfied, responsibilities of various individuals are defined in this article II.
Sec. 20-24 Elected officials and department directors
I.
Authority
. Each
elected official
and department head are authorized to:
A.
Procure
goods or services with a
contract
requirement of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less when the expenditure is authorized in an approved budget and
small purchase
standards set forth in article III are followed; and
B.
Initiate the procurement of all
simplified purchases
and
standard purchases
as set forth in article III.
II.
Duties and responsibilities
. In addition to any specific duties identified elsewhere in this code, each department head shall:
A.
Remain familiar with the requirements of this code and not knowingly allow any exceptions to be made to it without proper approvals and documentation;
B.
Ensure that all county employees under department head supervision involved in making purchases on behalf of the department are familiar with and follow the requirements of this code;
C.
Include in the department’s annual
budget
preparation process all existing, renewing, and anticipated contracts to be required or requested in the applicable
budget year
;
D.
Define the technical
specifications
and
scopes of work
necessary to meet the department’s requirements for all purchases in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00);
E.
Adhere to the payment processing standards established in this code and under the finance department’s policies and procedures;
F.
Identify the appropriate standard by which the department will demonstrate objective fairness, cost reasonableness and best use of public funds for small purchases;
G.
Serve as the principal
county representative
, or designate an appropriate county representative, to be identified in each contract entered through the department;
H.
Manage all contracts entered into on behalf or at the request of such department. Contract management includes but is not limited to: oversight and verification of goods delivered or services provided; review and approval of invoices; providing notice to the county attorney and contract manager of any breach of contract by the contractor or county; and
I.
Comply with the duties and responsibilities that apply to all county employees, as set forth in section 20-25(II).
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-24, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021