Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE IV. EXCAVATIONS
DIVISION 2. PERMIT
Sec. 42-145. Utility transmission line priority in county rights-of-way.
The
county
hereby establishes a priority favoring the
use
of county rights-of-way by public
utilities
, as defined at C.R.S. § 40-1-103(1)(a), as opposed to private utilities. In determining whether or not a
permit
shall
be issued to a private utility pursuant to any application submitted under section 42-141, the county
engineer
shall evaluate the maximum capacity of such
right-of-way
to accommodate the present and expected installation and operation of lines and
facilities
intended to distribute utilities and telecommunications products to end-users of such products and to also accommodate such other pipelines, wires, cable and any other facilities that any other private or public entity
may
wish to install and operate in such right-of-way. Consideration will also be given to future road
improvement
projects
. In the event that the county engineer determines that approving the permit application in question will adversely affect future road improvement projects or would occupy such capacity in the right-of-way that it would likely prevent the expected reasonable and necessary future expansion of utility
distribution lines
and facilities in that same right-of-way, the county engineer may deny the approval of the permit application. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a permit may be approved by the county engineer where the
applicant
demonstrates there is no practical alternative route or that the alternative route(s) would not be in the best public interest (i.e., environmental degradation, destruction of
wetlands
, adverse impacts to cultural resources, or similar adverse impact). County road crossings by a private utility, as opposed to requests for parallel installation, are not subject to this section. This section shall also not apply to maintenance, repair or replacement of pre-existing pipelines.
(Res. No. 2007-21, § 1, 4-10-2007)
Effective on: 4/10/2007