Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, AMENDMENTS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
Every
procurement
action results in a legal
contract
between the county and the supplier, regardless of purchase type or amount. This article VI discusses the appropriate contracts and terms to be used.
Sec. 20-65   Contract administration
A
county representative
shall be identified on all purchase
contracts
. The county representative is responsible for ensuring that all performance standards are met, for approving all invoices, and for coordinating any
change orders
or
contract amendments
with the
contract manager
.
I.
Inspecting a project
. The county representative is responsible for inspecting the
goods
or
services
received, including work performed, and keeping written records of project evaluation data. For public works and
construction
projects, departments should keep inspections logs, as appropriate. Departments must be aware that good written evaluation records are necessary to support suspension, debarment or potential future litigation.
II.
Causes for issuing a stop work order and cancelling a contract
. The county may stop project work if the contractor commits any of the following acts or omissions, which acts or omissions will constitute a substantial breach of the contract:
A.
Failure to deliver goods or begin work within the time specified in the contract;
B.
Failure to perform services or work with sufficient workers and equipment or with sufficient materials to ensure the prompt completion of said work;
C.
Failure to perform work in a safe and acceptable manner or the occurrence of a significant worksite injury;
D.
Citation by any state or federal agency for a violation of the law;
E.
Failure to perform services or work in accordance with contract requirements or refusal to remove and replace rejected supplies, equipment or materials or unacceptable work;
F.
Discontinues the prosecution of the work;
G.
Failure to resume services or work that has been discontinued within a reasonable time after notice to do so;
H.
Failure to procure or maintain the insurance policies and minimum coverage limits in accordance with contract requirements, or failure to provide 30 days’ advance notice regarding changes to or the cancellation of any insurance policies required by the contract;
I.
Becoming insolvent or declared bankrupt or committing any act of bankruptcy or insolvency;
J.
Allowing any final judgment against it to remain unsatisfied for a period of ten (10) days;
K.
Making an assignment for the benefit of creditors;
L.
Failure to comply with contract requirements;
M.
Is a party to fraud; or
N.
For any other cause whatsoever, fails to deliver goods or carry out services and work in an acceptable manner.
In addition to stopping the work, if the contractor commits any one of the above-described acts or omissions, the county may file a claim with the surety companies that provided any required bonds and may immediately terminate the contract upon written notice to the contractor.
III.
Stopping the work and cancelling a contract
. If the county discovers that the contractor has committed any of the above-described acts or omissions, the procurement division, after consultation with the county attorney, may order the work stopped as follows:
A.
If applicable, verbally inform the jobsite supervisor and company project supervisor (if different than the jobsite supervisor) that the work must be stopped immediately.
B.
Prepare a written stop work order explaining the deficiencies.
C.
Deliver the written stop work order (and copies thereof) to the contractor, the county manager, the original contract file, and finance department.
Goods shall not be accepted and work shall not progress until the deficiencies have been corrected to the satisfaction of the county. If the contractor fails to cure the deficiencies or, if after conferral between the procurement division, the county manager and county attorney, the deficiencies are of such a nature that it is in the
county's best interest
to cancel the contract, the county may immediately cancel the contract and file a claim with any surety company that issued a required bond.
IV.
Final inspection report
. Final inspection reports are recommended for all projects and are required for all contracts that require bonds or require retainage of part of the contract price unless a project is fully accepted and finally settled. The project manager and county representative must complete a final inspection report to document the completion of the project; the department's level of satisfaction with the contractor; and any recommendations to disbar, suspend or disqualify the contractor. Upon completion, the county representative must forward the final inspection report to the procurement division.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-65, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021