Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Sec. 69-14 Expiration of permit
I.
Approv
al of a
permit
shall expire after thirty-six (36) months unless
development permits
for construction are obtained for
commencement of construction
, if such permits are required and remain in effect; or activities described in the permit have substantially commenced; or the
board
specifies in its resolution granting the permit a different time period in which
building permits
must be obtained or the
project
must commence. Any further
development
after expiration of the permit shall require a new permit subject to all requirements and processes set forth in this chapter.
II.
Through a resolution approved and executed by the board
, a permit
may be extended beyond thirty-six (36) months when warranted in light of all relevant circumstances including, but not limited to, the construction, operation and cumulative
impacts
of the proposed project
, the size and phasing of the project and economic cycles and market conditions.  All requests for extension shall be made in writing and provide a basis for the extension.  In reviewing and acting upon a proposed extension, the board shall apply the applicable review criteria set forth in this chapter and may also consider the
applicant
’s diligent performance, or lack thereof, since the original permit was issued and the continuing adequacy of any financi
al guaranty.  The board may impose additional conditions at the time of the extension to ensure the project complies with this chapter.  The board shall retain sole discretionary authority regarding whether to extend a permit beyond the thirty-six (36) month period of expiration.  A request for extension for a major permit shall follow the same noticing procedures for the public hearing required for original permits as set forth in this chapter.  A request for extension shall require a request for a pre-submittal meeting pursuant to Section
69-9
with the
director
no later than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the original permit.  The proposed extension shall follow the applicable review process set forth in Section
69-12
.
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-14, 10/01/2019
)
Effective on: 1/1/1901