Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-7 Clustered rural development
I.
Purpose.
The clustered rural development is comprised of two (2) components: the residential cluster and the conservation area. The residential cluster is the portion of the parcel that is subdivided into lots for single-family residential and accessory uses. The conservation area is the larger portion of the development parcel and is conserved primarily for agriculture uses and open space uses. The purpose of the CRD option is to:
A.
Recognize the current thirty-five (35) acre exemption law and implement provisions of C.R.S. § 30-28-401 et seq.
B.
Preserve and protect land such as agricultural land, open space, distinct landscapes, ecosystems, wildlife habitat and critical areas.
C.
Ensure development maintains the character of rural lands with contiguity to agricultural lands suitable for long-range agriculture operations.
D.
Develop new methods that encourage the retention of agricultural land as a productive resource.
E.
Facilitate cooperation among neighboring landowners to create a single proposal for clustering on a portion of property and conservation of the remainder.
F.
Provide flexibility in land use regulations by responding to the needs of the agricultural community.
II.
Applicability.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-101(10)(d), the board hereby establishes CRD divisions as exempt from the definition of subdivision but subject to the minor subdivision review set forth in section 67-4. The CRD is a voluntary option and process under C.R.S. § 30-28-401 et seq. that may be used for any land in the county, other than in the AVLUP, meeting the criteria of this section that involves a single lot at least seventy (70) acres or more in size or two (2) or more contiguous lots that, when combined, comprise at least seventy (70) acres or more in size.
III.
Procedures.
The review process for a CRD subdivision shall be in accordance with the minor subdivision procedures set forth in section 67-4. No later than ten (10) days after approval of a CRD, the county shall notify CDOWR of such approval and provide CDOWR with a copy of the approved CRD.
IV.
Standards specific to clustered rural development process.
In addition to the general approval criteria for land use permits outlined in section 66-16, CRD divisions shall also comply with the following standards.
A.
The CRD shall be for single-family residential and accessory uses only. The density shall not exceed two (2) units for each thirty-five (35) acre increment. The layout of the residential cluster shall support the viability of existing agricultural activities and protect significant natural resources.
B.
No less than two-thirds (2/3) of the parcel, or if more than one parcel, two-thirds (2/3) of the total acreage of all parcels shall be preserved as contiguous open area to be used as open space, wildlife habitat, agricultural land, critical lands or similar uses.
C.
The conservation area shall be preserved for conservation purposes for a period not less than forty (40) years through an appropriate legal mechanism to be recorded with the county clerk and recorder imposing such restrictions. Acceptable legal mechanisms include, but are not limited to, a fee simple dedication or conservation easement to another governmental entity or a land trust that is a qualified organization as defined in subsection 170(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or is certified through the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies to hold conservation easements, provided that entity accepts the grant; a separate tract owned by a mandatory homeowners’ association or equivalent entity which agrees to be responsible for the management of the conservation area or other legal instrument, any of which must be approved by the county attorney.
D.
Development on the conservation parcel shall be restricted to accessory structures for agricultural use. Use of the conservation parcel should be limited to activities such as:
1.
Agricultural production and associated activities;
2.
General ranching, livestock and animal raising, not including feed lots;
3.
Use of motorized equipment needed for farming, ranching or management of the open space;
4.
Passive recreational uses such as but not limited to: hiking, cross country skiing and equestrian trails, provided the area is primarily left in its undisturbed natural condition and the recreational use is not for profit;
5.
Sanctuary or preserve for wildlife, fishing, forest or natural area;
6.
Other uses approved in the conservation easement or management plan.
E.
The proposed division and development of the land shall maintain the opportunity for agricultural production on the most agriculturally productive and viable portions of the land.
V.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicant shall submit the following documents and materials:
A.
CRD report. A detailed report that includes the following information.
1.
The existing environmental conditions, including agricultural values, on the parcel(s) to be developed and the effects of the development on those conditions.
2.
A description of the conservation values to be preserved and the means to preserve those values as undeveloped open space, pasture or grazing lands, agriculture production, wildlife habitat or other conservation uses acceptable to the county. The description shall include information on the management of the land as well as a description, and legal proof, of the scope and nature of water rights available for irrigation or maintenance of habitat.
3.
A draft of the legal instrument intended to impose legally sufficient restrictions on the conservation parcel. The legal instrument shall specify all development and land division restrictions set forth in this code, the duration of the restrictions, the maintenance requirements and permitted uses for the conservation area.
4.
A description of existing uses on the conservation area.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 67-7, 09/15/2020; Res. No. 2022-01, § 67-7, 01/04/2022
)
Effective on: 1/4/2022