Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE IV - SPECIFICATIONS AND SCOPES OF WORK
As discussed in article III, all
simplified
,
standard
, and
sole source purchases
begin with written
specifications
or a written
scope of work
(“SoW”). The importance of these documents to the quality of the
procurement process
, the eventual
contract
and, most important, the final result cannot be overstated.
Sec. 20-43 Specifications
Specifications
emphasize functional or performance criteria while limiting design or other detailed physical descriptions to those necessary to meet the county’s needs.
I.
Purpose of specifications
. The purpose of specifications is to serve as a basis for obtaining the
good
or
service
that is adequate and suitable to meet the county’s needs in a cost-effective manner considering, to the extent practicable, the costs of ownership and operation as well as initial acquisition costs.
II.
Form of specifications
. Specifications shall contain enough detail to provide for suitable purchases, without being unduly restrictive, and shall include the following information, where applicable:
A.
Functions and standards characteristics;
B.
Materials and methods descriptions;
C.
Shipment and delivery point requirements;
D.
Quality assurance and acceptance tests;
E.
Warranties and service support requirements;
F.
Product, supply and service specifications; and
G.
Environmental considerations in accordance with county policy.
III.
Preference for commercially available products
. To the extent practicable, preference shall be given to
procurement
of standard commercial products. In developing specifications, accepted commercial standards should be used and unique requirements should be avoided where possible.
IV.
Brand name or equal specifications – conditions for use
. “
Brand name
or equal” specifications may be used when the item to be procured is best described using such a specification and when the finance director, through acquisition planning, determines that it is in the
best interest of the county
.
A.
“Brand name or equal” specifications shall seek to designate as many different brands or “equal” references as are practicable and shall further state any substantially equivalent products that will be considered for
award
.
B.
Where a “brand name or equal” specification is used in a solicitation, the solicitation shall contain explanatory language that the use of a brand name is for the purpose of describing the standard of quality, performance, and characteristics desired and is not intended to limit or restrict competition.
V.
Brand name only specifications – conditions for use
. Since use of a
brand name only specification
is restrictive, it may be used only when the brand name or items will satisfy the department’s or elected official’s needs and the finance director determines in writing that one of the following criteria are satisfied.
A.
Criteria for brand name only specification:
1.
No other design or performance specification or qualified products list is available.
2.
Time does not permit the preparation of another form of product description that does not include a brand name specification.
3.
The nature of the product or the nature of the county’s requirements makes use of a brand name specification suitable for the procurement.
4.
Use of a brand name is in the county's best interest due to such concerns as standardization or compatibility with existing products used by other departments or elected officials.
B.
Brand name only specifications should not be confused with the situation that arises if only one source can supply the good or service. When only one source can supply the good or service, the procurement shall be made under the s
ole source purchase
policy set forth in section 20-36.
C.
Where a brand name only specification is used in a
solicitation
, the solicitation shall contain explanatory language that the use of a brand name is for the purpose of describing the standard of quality, performance, and characteristics desired and is not intended to limit or restrict competition.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-43, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021