Chapter 81 General Provisions
Sec. 81-6 Incorporation of relevant maps and documents
The county uses the following maps and documents as general sources of information to provide initial guidelines for siting development, and for alerting the county, the applicant, and the public about the physical characteristics of a parcel and the area in which it is located. Site-specific studies shall be required of individual parcels as the director deems necessary to more definitively determine individual characteristics and how they may affect a development proposal.
I.
Adopted maps, plans, and documents.
The following maps, plans, documents, and studies, as such may be revised, updated, or redrafted from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and declared a part of this code:
A.
The special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA in the August 19, 2010, Flood Insurance Study: La Plata County, Colorado and Incorporated Areas, Volumes 1 and 2 and accompanying flood insurance rate maps and floodway maps and the February 2008 study, prepared by Baker Engineering and Energy, entitled La Plata County, Colorado Technical Support Data Notebook: Zone A Analysis La Plata, Florida, and Animas Rivers including all attachments, revisions and supporting documentation (as shown in county GIS BFE floodplain layers, hydraulic models, etc.).
B.
Animas Valley Zone Districts, Resolution 1993-44 as amended, as shown in county GIS layers.
C.
Crowbar Creek Planning Area, Resolution 1994-29 as amended, as shown in county GIS layers.
D.
Gem Village Economic Development Area, Resolution 1995-35 as amended, as shown in county GIS layers.
E.
Joint Planning Area Intergovernmental Agreement adopted April 1, 2014 as amended, as shown in county GIS layers.
F.
Reserved.
II.
Reference maps and documents
. The county may use those plans, studies, and maps, as they may be amended and updated from time to time, in appendix section 81-6 as general references.
III.
City of Durango reference maps and documents.
A.
Intergovernmental agreement regarding cooperative land use planning between the City of Durango, Colorado and La Plata County, Colorado.
B.
City of Durango comprehensive plan and map, including the Durango District and La Posta Area District area plans, and City of Durango zoning maps.
C.
City of Durango Storm Drainage Criteria Manual.
IV.
Any other plans, studies and maps that are adopted by the county from time to time.​​​​​​
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 81-6, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020