CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-28 Appeals to Board of Adjustment
I.
Applicability.
Pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 30-28-118, appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved by a director determination made in the course of the administration of this code; provided, however, final decisions by the director relating to approval of administrative land use permits shall be appealed to the board.
II.
Procedures.
Figure 66-28 below identifies the application steps for an appeal.
Figure 66-28: Summary of Appeal Procedures
III.
Approval criteria.
In hearing an appeal of an administrative decision or interpretation, the BOA shall consider the following:
A.
The technical meaning of the provision being appealed;
B.
Evidence as to past interpretations and legislative history;
C.
The principles of interpretation and rules of construction in chapter 81;
D.
The effect of the interpretation on the intent of this code and the implementation of the comprehensive plan, other county adopted plans and any applicable intergovernmental agreement affecting land use or development.
IV.
Stay.
An appeal to the BOA shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed unless the county attorney determines that by reason of facts provided to the county attorney, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 66-28, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020