Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE IV. - TRANSFERS OF 06CW99 WATER RIGHT INCREMENTS
Sec. 94-43. - Applications.
Application
form and minimum information. A
water user
shall submit an application on forms provided by the
county
. The application shall include the minimum
administrative processing fee
pursuant to subsection
94-46
(I) and supporting documents determined by the planning
director
to be necessary to demonstrate compliance with this article. At a minimum, the application shall include the following:
Description of the applicant. Name, address, phone number, and email address of the water user. If the water user is represented by an agent, the application shall also include a notarized designation of agent or power of attorney.
Description of the intended uses. A general description of the intended use of the
increments
, and physical addresses and parcel numbers where the increments will be used. Applications for
agricultural irrigation increments
shall specifically state the number of acres that will be dedicated exclusively to crop production. Applications for
domestic animal increments
shall specifically describe the animal husbandry activities that will occur.
Description of conveyance method. General description of how the increments will be conveyed and put to use, and location for each diversion stated in the UTM format (UTM Zone must be 12 or 13; units must be meters; datum must be NAD83; and units must be set to true North).
Easements. If the water user is not the property owner of record as determined by the county assessor's records for all parcels where surface diversions, groundwater wells, or any other conveyance or storage structures are located, copies of any existing documents demonstrating legal access (easements, court orders, carriage agreements, etc.).
Maps. Sufficiently sized and scaled maps showing existing or proposed:
Parcel and lot lines.
Easements.
Structures.
Acreage intended to be dedicated exclusively to crop production.
Surface diversions, groundwater wells, and any other conveyance or storage structures.
Water rights
. List of all names, structure identification numbers, and applicable water court case numbers for all conditional and
absolute water rights
that are or may be used on the parcels where the increments will be used.
Well permits. Copies of well permits applied for or approved by the Colorado Division of Water Resources for all groundwater wells.
Land use and
building permits
. Permit or project numbers for any land use and building permits for development or structures associated with the intended use of the increments.
Incomplete applications. Within 20
business days
of receiving an application, the planning director shall notify the water user in writing if the application is incomplete or otherwise fails to provide information necessary to determine compliance with this article.
Decisions on applications. Within 20 business days of receiving a complete application, the planning director shall notify the water user in writing if the application is approved, conditionally approved, denied, or if the water user must apply to the
board of county commissioners
for a special exception.
Approval. The planning director shall approve applications that satisfy the requirements of this article.
Conditional approval. The planning director may approve applications with conditions determined by the planning director as necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
Denial. The planning director may deny applications that do not satisfy the requirements of this article.
Special exception. If the director determines that an application will only satisfy the requirements of this ARTICLE if the board approves a special exception as is contemplated in subsection
94-50
(I)(C), and subsection
94-50
(I)(D), the planning director shall send notice that the water user may apply to the board of county commissioners for a special exception pursuant to subsection
94-50
(I).
Inactive applications. A water user shall diligently pursue an application or the planning director may deem the application automatically withdrawn after following the procedures outlined in subsection 82-86(II) of the
County Code
.
(Res. No. 2012-35, § 1(Exh. A), 8-28-2012, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017