Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Overview
In Colorado, the majority of land use responsibility and decisions reside at the local level of government (county and municipal). Various laws give counties authority to plan for and regulate the use of land. La Plata County has previously developed and adopted regulations that address, among other things, the use of land based on the impact the use has on the surrounding area, the subdivision of land for residential, commercial and
industrial
purposes, ensuring an adequate water supply for new
development
, the establishment of roads and activities in hazardous areas. Regulations on these matters are primarily set forth in
chapter
65
(Animas Valley zon
e districts
and economic development areas), chapter
66
(permits and procedures), chapter
67
(division of land), chapter
68
(planned unit developments), chapter
70
(general site development standards
applicable to all development
), chapter
72
(overlay standards
and supplemental overlay standards
), chapter
73
(standards
and additional submittal requirements
for specific uses), chapter
74
(road and bridge standards and permits), and chapter
78
(floodplains), of the La Plata County Code.
The activities regulated by this Chapter 69 differ from those addressed elsewhere in the
county
’s land use code. These Chapter 69 regulations pertain solely to the types of activities described in Sec.
69-4
and derive from the Colorado General Assembly’s passage of the Areas and Activities of State Interest Act (C.R.S. §§ 24-65.1-101 through 24-65.1-502) in 1974 (commonly referred to as “1041 Powers” after the bill number of the state statute). These regulations authorize the county to have input on and to require a
permit
for certain activities that may have impacts beyond the immediate site of the
project
. These activities are therefore known as “
matters of state interest
”. Because the Colorado General Assembly has determined these specific activities are a matter of state concern, they are subject to a different type of land use review as described in this chapter. Generally, the regulations will apply to “large scale” rather than “small scale” projects.
Some of these activities could have substantial
impacts
on the citizens of the county while conferring little to no benefit to the local community but, rather, benefiting only residents in other counties or other states. In other instances, economic and other positive impacts may outweigh the negative impacts and these regulations allow the county to balance the impacts. These regulations provide for more local control over these types of activities and major projects.
These regulations will allow the county to better coordinate its interrelationship with other local governments, the State of Colorado and the federal government. Under state and federal law, many of these activities undertaken by these other governmental entities are not subject to the same county land use regulations that are applicable to private development. Without 1041 regulations, these governmental entities apply to a county for location and extent review (L&E) of a proposed activity. This L&E review procedure only provides the county with a limited opportunity to review, comment and approve or disapprove the project and only in relation to a county’s
comprehensive plan
. However, the other governmental entity can override county disapproval of the project and disregard its comments and concerns. This type of courtesy review does not give the county a voice as to these activities and is often inadequate to address complex projects with
significant
impacts. These 1041 regulations create a tool to ensure projects by other governments that impact unincorporated La Plata County serve the community’s goals and protect the public interest and welfare of La Plata County citizens.
To prevent duplication where the procedures in this chapter may overlap with the county's requirements for other types of land use permits, the provisions of these regulations control and the
director
may waive or modify applicable requirements under other chapters.
(
Res. No. 2019-023, §  10/01/2019
)
Effective on: 10/1/2019