Chapter 74: Road and Bridge Standards and Permits
Sec. 74-6 Subdivisions where all lots are greater than thirty-five (35) acres
I.
Applicability.
Subdivisions where all lots are greater than thirty-five (35) acres and platted after the effective date of this code are subject to the standards in this chapter except subsection 74-2.II for LOS standards on existing county roads, section 74-5 and subsection 74-3.III process outline, submittals and completion.
II.
Submittals and completion
. The process, submittal requirements and requirements for completion for subdivisions where all lots are greater than thirty-five (35) acres is as follows:
A.
Process outline. The owner shall provide the required submittals to the CDD and the submittal shall be referred to the public works department for review and approval. The public works director or the planning engineer shall perform a preliminary and final review of the submittal materials. It may be necessary for the owner to revise and resubmit materials based upon the review.
Prior to construction, the owner shall submit final submittal items with appropriate documents signed and sealed by a professional engineer for county approval.
Any proposed revisions to the approved documents and supporting information shall be submitted to the CDD for approval prior to project completion. Revised construction plans shall show the clouded revisions and be signed and sealed by a professional engineer. If the public works director or planning engineer do not approve the changes, the applicant shall comply with the previously approved documents.
B.
Submittal requirements. The owner of the land shall submit the following:
1.
At project submittal, one (1) set of preliminary submittal items in an electronic format acceptable to the planning engineer.
2.
A preliminary plat prepared by a professional land surveyor, which shall comply with the following at a minimum:
a.
All information shall be presented accurately and legibly. If all the information cannot be contained accurately and legibly on a single sheet, additional sheets shall be drafted.
b.
Title block. The title block should be in the lower right-hand corner of the sheets. The title block shall contain the following:
i.
Name of the development;
ii.
Names of the owners, applicants, surveyors, architects, engineer and builders, when applicable;
iii.
Date of preparation;
iv.
Section, township and range of the project.
c.
Land use table. Subdivision plats shall have a table containing the following:
i.
Total number of lots;
ii.
Total acreage of the subdivision;
iii.
Range of lot sizes.
d.
Vicinity map of project location. Plats shall include a vicinity map with a minimum scale one (1) inch equals one thousand (1,000) feet depicting the following:
i.
Major roads, adjoining subdivisions, town boundaries;
ii.
Section, township and range;
iii.
Rivers and streams;
iv.
Location of project.
e.
Roads, access, as applicable, shall be indicated and shall include the following:
i.
The road right-of-way layout, right-of-way width, pedestrian and equestrian ways shall be indicated;
ii.
The access points to the subdivision, including connections to the adjoining subdivision, shall be shown as well as the county and state roads;
iii.
The proposed ownership of roads shall be clearly labeled and the method of maintenance of the roads shall be indicated.
f.
Include subdivision, municipal, school district, fire district and other jurisdictional boundaries.
g.
Location, and identification of all roads, railroads, utilities and other easements of any kind.
h.
Include the location of all critical lands required by subparagraph 67-15.VI.C.11.
i.
Include the survey data required by subsection 67-15.VI., as applicable.
3.
For all required improvements and facilities, construction plans meeting the minimum formatting and content requirements set forth in the construction plan guidance documents provided by the public works director or planning engineer and comporting with current industry standards. All construction plans shall be completed with enough detail to facilitate review and clearly describe the existing conditions and proposed construction of the development in its entirety and detail all existing and proposed equipment, infrastructure, and access. The required detail of construction plans, as determined by the planning engineer or public works director, shall depend upon the size, nature, and complexity of the use or development.
4.
If applicable, access permits demonstrating legal access from any municipal streets that are not county roads, including city streets and state highways.
5.
Technical reports evaluating drainage, geotechnical, hydrological, structural and pavement design and other pertinent engineering information deemed necessary by the public works director or planning engineer given the context.
6.
Traffic evaluation per paragraph 74-3.IV.B.
C.
Completion. For project completion, the owner shall complete improvements prior to issuance of a building permit. An inspection by the county shall be performed to verify all improvements have been constructed, revegetation measures have been installed, and conditions of approval have been met. The owner shall also submit the following:
1.
Certification by a professional engineer that the improvements have been constructed in accordance with the approved construction plans.
2.
Certification by the owner that all improvements have been constructed in accordance with the approved construction plans.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 74-6, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020