Chapter 81 General Provisions
Sec. 81-5 Construction
The following are rules regarding construction of language in this code:
I.
Conflicting provisions
.
A.
More versus less restrictive. Where there exists a conflict or overlap between any provisions within this code or between this code and any other regulation adopted by the county, the provision that is the more restrictive or particular shall prevail over that which is less restrictive or general.
B.
Text versus table, illustration, graphic depiction or caption. If a conflict or overlap arises between the provisions of the text of this code and any table, illustration, graphic depiction or the captions for any chapter, section or subsection, the provisions of the text shall prevail.
C.
Private agreements. It is not the intent of this code to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction, or other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this code impose a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the provisions of this code shall control. If the provisions of a private agreement impose a greater restriction than this code, the provisions of the private agreement shall control. The county shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing private agreements, such as private subdivision covenants and restrictions.
II.
Exercise of authority
. Whenever a provision appears requiring the director, or the head of any other county department to perform an act or duty, it shall be construed to authorize the director or the head of any other county department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the duty or act. When this code delegates authority or discretion to the director or the head of any other county department, such authority or discretion shall be exercised in a reasonable manner and uniformly applied to all persons and things in order that property owners and other persons will be protected against arbitrary and capricious administrative action. The director shall exercise fair, honest and independent judgment in the director’s role as a decision-maker.
III.
Computation of time
. The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day; or if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday observed by the county, the next business day shall be the deadline. References to “days” are calendar days (versus business or workdays), unless otherwise stated.
A.
Day. The end of the day shall be at 5:00 P.M., local time.
B.
Week. The word “week” shall mean seven (7) days.
C.
Month. The word “month” shall mean thirty (30) days.
D.
Year. The word “year” shall mean three hundred and sixty-five (365) days.
IV.
Fractions.
Whenever a fraction is generated in the computation of standards, such as required parking spaces or the number of required trees or shrubs, the fraction shall be rounded to the next highest whole number.
V.
Word usage.
A.
Tense. Words used in present tense include the future, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
B.
Singular and plural. A word importing the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person or thing. The use of the plural number shall include any single person or thing, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
C.
Shall/must/may/should. The words “shall” and “must” mean mandatory, “may” means permissive and “should” means preferred.
D.
Masculine/Feminine. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine gender shall include the masculine.
E.
Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests otherwise, conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
“And” means that all connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply; and
"Or" means that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply.
F.
Common/technical terms. Unless specifically defined by this code, words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved meaning of the term, but technical words and phrases which have acquired a particular meaning shall be understood according to such meaning.
G.
Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use terms such as "for example," "including," and "such as," or similar language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
H.
References to statutes, regulations, publications and documents. Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, unless otherwise specifically stated.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 81-5, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020