Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
DIVISION 3. AIRPORT ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Note—
See editor's note at division 1.
Sec. 54-73. Penalties for violations of article.
I.
On the grounds and
premises
of the Durango-La Plata
County
Airport where official signs are posted giving notice of stopping, standing or parking restrictions or prohibitions as authorized in this article and described in this article, no
person
shall
stop
,
stand
or
park
a
vehicle
in any manner in
violation
of the provisions contained on such signs except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a parking
control
officer, peace officer or official traffic control device.
II.
It is a violation to park on any part of the grounds and premises of the Durango-La Plata County Airport that is designated as a
snow route
so as to impede snow removal operations which are imminent or in progress.
III.
Any person who violates any designated parking control zones commits an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-402, as amended, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as adopted by the
board
of county
commissioners
.
IV.
Whenever any vehicle is located in a designated tow-away zone, the parking enforcement officer
may
, if he deems such vehicle is in violation of such zone, cause such vehicle to be towed as follows:
A.
Vehicle in violation of designated area at the Durango-La Plata County Airport shall be towed to the storage
lot
operated and maintained by the towing operator.
B.
Towing charges and applicable storage charges, if any, shall be paid before or at the time of release of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, § 3(Exh. A), 4-22-2014;
Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 54-73 (Exh. F), 09/27/2022
)
Effective on: 9/27/2022