Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-14 Enforcement
I.
Unlawful acts.
A.
It is unlawful and a violation of this article and of the terms and conditions of every local
license
to cultivate, process, manufacture, distribute, deliver, store, test, or sell marijuana, except in strict compliance with this article, the
marijuana code
, the
marijuana rules
,
Amendment 20
and
Amendment 64
.
B.
It is unlawful for any
person
to engage in any form of business or commerce directly involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, distribution, delivery, storage, testing, or sale of marijuana other than those forms of business and commerce that are expressly contemplated by this article, the marijuana code, the marijuana rules, Amendment 20 and Amendment 64.
II.
Investigation.
Local licensing authority
staff or the
county
code enforcement officer will initiate an investigation after receiving a complaint or observing potential noncompliance. If the investigation demonstrates that probable cause of a violation of this article, the marijuana code, or the marijuana rules may exist, a written summary of the facts and the supporting evidence shall be prepared by staff.
III.
Compliance.
A.
Warning or notice of violation
. When an alleged violation occurs that does not affect public health, safety or welfare, county staff shall send a written warning or notice of violation to the licensee, by mail or email, setting forth the violations discovered during their investigations. For purposes of this provision, the notice of violation shall be deemed delivered on the date it is emailed to the licensee at the email address on file with the county (a delivery receipt is required), upon hand delivery, or five (5) days after it is mailed by first class, U.S. mail.
B.
Meeting.
The licensee shall have ten (10) days from the date of notice to contact county staff and arrange a date and time to meet to discuss the violations and proposed remedies to such violations. At its initial meeting, staff will work with licensees to establish timelines within which remedies to violations must be completed.
C.
Diligence.
Every licensee shall diligently pursue all actions necessary to bring its license, licensed premises or place of business, or both into compliance with this article, the marijuana code and the marijuana rules. If a licensee fails to diligently pursue and complete required remedies within the timeframes established by county staff, they may pursue an enforcement action pursuant to
subsection (IV)
below.
IV.
Enforcement action.
A.
Notice to appear.
If a licensee fails to diligently pursue and complete required remedies necessary to bring its license, licensed premises or place of business, or both into compliance with this article, the marijuana code and the marijuana rules within the timeframe established by county staff pursuant to subsection (III) above, they shall prepare a notice to appear. The notice will detail the violations and failure of the licensee to correct the same and provide the licensee with the date and time of a scheduled hearing before the local licensing authority. Licensing staff shall deliver the same to the local licensing authority and licensee, by mail or electronic transmission. For purposes of this provision, the notice of violation shall be deemed delivered on the date it is emailed to the licensee at the email address on file with the county (a delivery receipt is required), upon hand delivery, or five (5) days after it is mailed by first class, U.S. mail.
B.
Response.
A licensee shall file a written response with staff within fifteen (15) days of the date the notice to appear is delivered to the licensee. If a licensee fails to file a written response within this time frame, the local licensing authority may enter a default judgment against the licensee at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
C.
Hearing.
At a scheduled hearing, the local licensing authority may administer oaths and issue subpoenas to require the presence of persons and the production of papers, books, and records necessary for determination at a hearing. The licensee shall be given the opportunity to cross-examine those testifying, as well as provide evidence in defense or to mitigate a penalty.
D.
Sanctions.
After hearing testimony at a public hearing for which the licensee was given notice to appear, the local licensing authority may issue a verbal or written warning, a fine, a fine in lieu of suspension, or suspend or revoke a license for violation of this article, the marijuana code, the marijuana rules or provisions and conditions of the license. A suspension shall not be longer than six (6) months. Notice of a suspension shall be posted on the premises in accordance with the requirements of the marijuana code and marijuana rules.
V.
Summary suspension.
A license may be summarily suspended by the local licensing authority without prior notice to the licensee when the local licensing authority finds, by objective and reasonable grounds, either that: (i) the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, or (ii) the licensee, or its owners, business operators, agents, or employees or social equity licensees who are participating in the accelerator program and are being hosted and offered technical and capital support by the licensee have willfully and deliberately violated this article, the marijuana code, the marijuana rules or provisions of the license.
A.
Presentation of findings.
After delivery of a written presentation of findings from local licensing authority staff or the county code enforcement officer following a full investigation (i.e. the reasonable ascertainment of the underlying facts on which action is based), the local licensing authority may summarily suspend a license.
B.
Hearing.
A hearing on suspension shall be held and determined promptly after a summary suspension occurs. The local licensing authority may administer oaths and issue subpoenas to require the presence of persons and the production of papers, books, and records necessary for determination at a hearing. The licensee shall be given the opportunity to cross-examine those testifying and provide evidence in defense or to mitigate a penalty.
C.
Sanctions after hearing.
After hearing testimony at a public hearing, the local licensing authority may confirm and continue the suspension, issue a verbal or written warning, a fine, a fine in lieu of suspension, or revoke a license for violation by the licensee or its owners, business operators, agents, or employees or social equity licensees who are participating in the accelerator program and are being hosted and offered technical and capital support by the licensee, as applicable, of this article, the marijuana code, the marijuana rules or provisions and conditions of the license. A suspension shall not be longer than six (6) months. Notice of a suspension shall be posted on the premises in accordance with the requirements of the marijuana code and marijuana rules.
VI.
Notice to licensee.
Notice of a suspension, revocation, fine or other sanction shall be mailed, by certified mail, to the licensee at the address contained in the license and shall be deemed received five (5) days from the date of mailing.
VII.
Penalty schedule.
The penalty schedule is a framework providing guidance to the local licensing authority as to the range of violations, suspension description, fines, and mitigating and aggravating factors considered in enforcement actions. The circumstances surrounding any penalty imposed will be determined on a case-by-case basis. The local licensing authority shall make determinations regarding the type of penalty to impose based on the severity of the violation in the following categories:
A.
License violations affecting public safety.
1.
Violations of this nature generally have an immediate impact on the health, safety, and welfare of the public at large. This category of violation is the most severe and may include, but is not limited to:
a.
Wastewater discharge in violation of applicable permits or federal, state and local regulations that poses health hazards to water systems, groundwater or the public.
b.
Production of marijuana products with
chemicals
or chemical compounds prohibited by federal, state or local jurisdictions.
c.
Medical marijuana sales to non-patients.
d.
Retail marijuana
sales to individuals under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
e.
Consuming marijuana on a licensed premises.
f.
Possessing, storing, using or consuming, cultivating, manufacturing, selling, distribution, or testing of marijuana and marijuana products at business operator’s place of business.
g.
Marijuana sales in excess of the relevant transaction limits.
h.
Permitting the diversion of marijuana outside the regulated distribution system.
i.
Possessing marijuana or marijuana products obtained from outside the regulated distribution system or from an unauthorized source.
j.
Failure to cooperate with law enforcement or licensing and code enforcement staff and investigators during the course of a local licensing authority investigation.
k.
Failure to continuously escort a visitor in a limited access area.
l.
Violations related to dually located medical and retail marijuana businesses.
m.
Violations related to R&D co-location permits.
n.
Failure to maintain books and records to fully account for all transactions of the business.
o.
Failure to comply with any requirement related to transfer of sampling units.
p.
Packaging or labeling violations that directly impact patient or customer safety.
2.
Penalties and sanctions.
Penalties for this category of violation include license restrictions, license suspension, a fine per individual violation, a fine in lieu of suspension, a license revocation, or any combination of the above depending on the mitigating and aggravating circumstances. Any fine levied under this category shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the maximum fine that the
MED
can levy for the same or similar violations.
B.
License violations.
1.
This category of violation is more severe than a license infraction but generally does not have an immediate impact on the health, safety and welfare of the public at large. License violations may include, but are not limited to:
a.
Failure to obtain prior approval of changes or transfers of ownership.
b.
Failure to provide notification, with evidence of necessary approvals, to the county for modifications described in
section 7-9(III).
c.
Failure to obtain local licensing authority approval for modifications set forth in
section 7-9(IV)
.
d.
Failure to comply with the requirements and conditions of approved land use permits that do not directly impact public safety.
e.
Advertising or marketing violations.
f.
Packaging or labeling violations that do not directly impact patient or consumer safety.
g.
Failure to maintain minimum security requirements.
h.
Failure to keep and maintain adequate business books and records.
i.
Minor or clerical errors in the inventory tracking procedures.
2.
Penalties and sanctions.
The range of penalties for this category of violation may include a written warning, license restrictions, suspension, a fine per individual violation, a fine in lieu of suspension, a license revocation, or any combination of the above depending on the mitigating and aggravating circumstances. Any fine levied under this category shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the maximum fine that the MED can levy for the same or similar violations.
C.
License infractions.
1.
This category of violation is the least severe and may include, but is not limited to:
a.
Failure to display required badges.
b.
Failure to provide the required notice and documents to the county in the time required under
section 7-9(II)
.
c.
Failure to notify licensing staff of a change in entity structure.
2.
Penalties and sanctions.
The range of penalties for this category of violation may include a verbal or written warning, license restrictions, license suspension, a fine per individual violation, a fine in lieu of suspension or any combination of the above depending on the mitigating and aggravating circumstances. Any fine levied under this category shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the maximum fine that the MED can levy for the same or similar violations.
D.
Mitigating and aggravating factors.
The local licensing authority may consider mitigating and aggravating factors when considering the imposition of a penalty. These factors may include, but are not limited to:
1.
Any prior violations that the licensee has admitted to or was found to have engaged in.
2.
Action taken by the licensee to prevent the violation.
3.
The licensee’s past history of success or failure with compliance checks.
4.
Corrective action(s) taken by the licensee related to the current violation or prior violations.
5.
Willfulness and deliberateness of the violation.
6.
Likelihood of reoccurrence of the violation.
7.
Owner
, business operator or manager is the violator or has directed an employee or other individual to violate the law.
8.
Participation in state-approved educational programs related to the operation of a marijuana business.
VIII.
Fine in lieu.
If the local licensing authority suspends a license for fourteen (14) days or less, the licensee may, before the date of the suspension, petition for permission to pay a fine in lieu of having the license suspended for all or part of the suspension period. The local licensing authority may stay the proposed suspension, investigate the matter, and may grant the petition if it makes a finding that the factors set forth in C.R.S. § 44-10-901(3)(a), as amended, are satisfied. The fine accepted shall be not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and no more than one-hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). The fine shall be based on the costs and expenses for the county’s investigation and hearing, as well as a penalty that is supported by the record. Upon payment of the fine, the local licensing authority shall enter a further order permanently staying the imposition of the suspension.
IX.
Illegal controlled substance.
A.
The local licensing authority’s order may specify that some or all of the licensee’s marijuana or marijuana product is an illegal controlled substance. The order may specify that the licensee shall lose any interest in any of the marijuana or marijuana product even if the marijuana or marijuana product previously qualified as permitted marijuana or marijuana product.
B.
The local licensing authority’s order may direct the destruction of any such marijuana and marijuana products. If destruction is ordered, the licensee may:
1.
Voluntarily surrender to the local licensing authority all of the marijuana or marijuana-infused products declared an illegal controlled substance by the order;
2.
File a petition for a stay of the local licensing authority order with the La Plata County District Court within fifteen (15) days of the date of the issuance of the local licensing authority order.
If the licensee does not complete either of the options in (B)(1) or (B)(2) above, the local licensing authority and its representatives and designees shall have the authority to enter upon the licensed premises and seize and destroy the marijuana plants or marijuana products that are subject of the local licensing authority.
C.
The local licensing authority shall not carry out destruction until at least fifteen (15) days following the issuance of the order has passed and the District Attorney for the Sixth Judicial District has been notified of the impending destruction.  The local licensing authority will not carry out the destruction if the District Attorney for the Sixth Judicial District has notified the local licensing authority that the marijuana or marijuana products declared an illegal controlled substance constitute evidence in a criminal proceeding and it should not be destroyed.
D.
During the period of time between the issuance of the local licensing authority order and the destruction of the marijuana or marijuana products declared an illegal controlled substance, the licensee shall not sell, destroy, or otherwise let any marijuana or marijuana products declared an illegal controlled substance leave the licensed premises, unless specifically authorized by the local licensing authority or court order, and the licensee must safeguard any marijuana or marijuana product in its possession and control and must fully comply with all security requirements.
E.
Unless the local licensing authority or court otherwise orders, the licensee may cultivate, water, or otherwise care for any marijuana or marijuana products declared an illegal controlled substance during the period of time between the issuance of the local licensing authority order and the destruction of the marijuana or marijuana products declared an illegal controlled substance.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, §  06/10/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, §  12/08/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, §  03/07/2017
)
(
Res. No.
2017-08
, §  03/07/2017; Res. No. 2019-18, §  06/25/2019; Res. No.
2020-23
, §  05/26/2020; Res. No. 2021-11, §  04/13/2021
)
Effective on: 5/16/2021