Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE V METHODS OF COMPETITIVE SOURCE SELECTION FOR STANDARD PURCHASES
This article describes the appropriate methods of competitive source selection for
standard purchases
(i.e., purchases with a contract requirement of more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Generally, while
IFBs
or
RFPs
will be used, the
contract manager
in consultation with the finance director, may also determine that an
RFI
,
RFQ
or other tools should also be utilized. When such tools are used, the procurement division will outline the process to be used, in writing, prior to letting a
solicitation
. The provisions of this article do not apply to the source selection methods applicable to
small purchases
or
simplified purchases
.
Sec. 20-51 Bid security
Bid security is submitted as a guaranty that a
bid
or an
offer
will be maintained in full force and effect for a period of not less than sixty (60) days after opening of the bids or offers, or such other timeframe as specified in the
solicitation
.
I.
Requirement for bid security is discretionary.
Bid security may be required for any standard purchase at the discretion of the finance director in an amount not to exceed five (5) percent of the
contract
amount.
II.
Rejection of proposals for noncompliance
. If a
bidder
or offeror fails to accompany its bid or
proposal
with the required bid security, the bid or offer shall be rejected as non-responsive.
III.
Withdrawal of bids or proposals that require bid security
. After bids and proposals requiring security are opened, they shall be irrevocable for the period specified in the
IFB
,
RFP
or other solicitation package, unless withdrawal is specifically permitted by the finance director in writing. If a bidder or offeror is permitted to withdraw its bid or proposal before
award
, no action shall be taken against the bid security.
IV.
Acceptable bid security
. Acceptable bid security shall be limited to:
A.
A one-time bid bond underwritten by a company licensed to issue bonds in the State of Colorado;
B.
A bank cashier’s check made payable to La Plata County;
C.
A bank certified check or cashier’s check made payable to La Plata County; or
D.
An irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the county.
V.
Return of bid security
. Upon award of a contract and execution of the same to the successful bidder or offeror, bid security will be returned to all unsuccessful bidders who have not forfeited such bid security, as set forth below, within fifteen (15) business days of the county’s receipt of the executed contract with the successful bidder. Bid security will also be returned to the bidder or offeror awarded the contract within fifteen (15) business days of the county’s receipt of the executed contract; provided that this in no way will relieve the successful bidder or offeror from providing any additional required
performance bond
.
VI.
Forfeit of bid security
. A bidder or offeror will forfeit the bid security to the county if they withdraw their bid/proposal after bids/proposals are opened; unless expressly permitted in writing by the
contract manager
; fail to execute a contract after the notice of award is issued; fail to provide proof of necessary insurance and other assurances required by the award or contract; or fail to provide any performance and
payment bonds
that may be required.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-51, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021