Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Sec. 69-15 Technical revisions and permit amendments
Any cha
nge in the application, design, construction or operation of the
project
from that approved by the
county
shall require staff review and a determination of technical revision or
permit
amendment. The criteria for this determination shall be based on the additional size of the area affected and/or the intensity of
impact
of the project.
I.
Permit amendments. Changes other than technical revisions shall be considered permit
amendments. A permit amendment shall be subject to review as a new permit application.
II.
Technical revisions. A proposed change shall be considered a technical revision if the
director
determines that:
A.
There will be no increase in the size of the area affected or the intensity of impacts
because of the proposed change(s).
B.
The proposed amendments do not substantially change any of the original plans or items that may have been conditioned through the public hearing process.
C.
Any increase in the area or intensity of impacts
is insignificant.
III.
Submittal requirements for technical review. The following information and materials shall be submitted by the  permit
holder for staff review of the proposed changes:
A.
Completed application.​​​​​​
;
B.
Application fee.​​​​​​
;
C.
Proof of ownership or notarized letter of authorization from the landowner permitting a representative to process the application with a disclaimer that no other party’s consent is required.​​​​​​
;
D.
As-built drawings of the project
, if available.​​​​​​
;
E.
Drawings and plans of proposed changes to the project
.​​​​​​
;
F.
Statement of need for the proposed change.​​​​​​
;
G.
Description of additional changed
mitigation
plans.​​​​​​
;
H.
The first and any other subsequently approved 1041 permit
, development plan exhibit and associated material.
IV.
Technical revision review process.
A.
Upon receipt of all required information, the director
shall review the submittal and prepare comment.
B.
The
applicant
shall be notified of any outstanding issues upon completion of a fourteen (14) day staff review and referral process. The applicant shall resolve all outstanding issues raised through the referral process.
C.
Once the director
approves the technical revision and signs a technical revision permit,
building permits
may be applied for and/or obtained
.
D.
If any
person
is aggrieved by the director's
determination to exempt a technical revision application because it does not meet the technical revision requirements or if a technical revision is denied by the director, that person may file an appeal to the
board
no later than ten (10) business days after the date of the director’s written determination.
V.
Approval criteria for a technical revision. Prior to approval of a technical revision the director
shall consider the following criteria:​​​​​​​
A.
Whether the technical revision
ensures the efficient
development
and preservation of the original permit
and the underlying development plan or subdivision plat.​​​​​​
;
B.
Whether the technical revision will adversely affect reasonable development expectations and the use and enjoyment of adjacent land use or the public interest.​​​​​​
;
C.
Whether the technical revision preserves the spirit and in
tent of the original permit and the development plan and not weaken the purposes of this chapter.​​​​​​;
D.
Whether approval of the technical revision will adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare of the public.​​​​​
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-16, 10/01/2019
)​​​​​​​
Effective on: 1/1/1901