Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE III. - VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Contents:
Sec. 94-31. - Applicable law.
Sec. 94-32. - Application procedure.
Sec. 94-33. - Class II procedure; review by planning commission.
Sec. 94-34. - Departmental review.
Sec. 94-35. - Board of county commissioners proceedings.
Sec. 94-36. - Vacation of eligible county road rights-of-way.
Sec. 94-37. - Recording of documents vacating or abandoning a roadway.
Sec. 94-31. - Applicable law.
State statutes concerning definitions, vesting of title upon vacation, methods of vacation and limitations of actions, as provided in C.R.S. § 43-2-301 et seq., as amended from time to time, shall control vacation proceedings, as supplemented by this article.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.3.a)
Effective on: 8/28/2012
Sec. 94-32. - Application procedure.
Eligible
applications
for the vacation of public rights-of-way that are initiated by the
county
road and bridge department and the planning department shall follow the procedures set forth in section
94-36
.
Except as addressed by subsection 94-32 (I) or subsection
94-16
(XI), all applications for the sale of property or vacation of rights-of-way shall follow the procedures set forth in sections
94-33
,
94-34
, and
94-35
. All such applications shall be filed with the planning department and shall be reviewed by all appropriate county departments, the planning commission and the
board of county commissioners
.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.3.b; Res. No. 2002-5, § 1, 1-7-2002; Res. No. 2004-20, § 1, 6-28-2004; Res. No. 2008-30, § 1, 11-12-2008)
Effective on: 8/28/2012
Sec. 94-33. - Class II procedure; review by planning commission.
Applications
to vacate any right-of-way or for the sale of public property shall be subject to class II procedures under subpart B of this Code, as determined applicable by the planning
director
, except as specifically modified hereby. In the case of the proposed vacation of rights-of-way, the public works director, or his designee, shall attend the preapplication conference. In addition to the requirements for an application for a class II land use permit, an application for vacation of rights-of-way shall include the following:
A vicinity map showing the following:
The location of all adjacent properties and any structures within 150 feet of the boundaries of the proposed abandonment.
Land uses for those adjacent properties.
Locations of all existing utilities, in or adjacent to, the proposed vacation.
Existing rights-of-way within a 500-foot radius of any right-of-way proposed for abandonment.
A survey and map, as may be requested by the county's engineer, prepared in an original form to be recorded at the office of the county clerk and recorder. The survey/map is to be submitted prior to consideration by the planning commission.
Any additional materials necessary to adequately review the application as determined by the planning director within five working days following the preapplication conference.
A written statement addressing the reasons for requesting the vacation or sale.
A letter from any involved utility company stating the company's position on the proposed vacation.
Names and addresses of all adjacent property owners within 500 feet of all boundaries of the right-of-way or easement requested for vacation.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.3.c; Res. No. 2004-20, § 2, 6-28-2004; Res. No. 2008-30, § 2, 11-12-2008, Res. No. 2016-1, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017
Sec. 94-34. - Departmental review.
Upon the receipt of an
application
or request, the planning department shall review the application for completeness. If determined to be incomplete, the planning department shall notify the applicant of such deficiencies. The applicant shall then have not less than 30, nor more than 90, days to complete the application.
Written notice, together with sufficient information concerning completed applications, shall be referred to the following
county
departments for comment:
County manager;
County attorney;
Road and bridge department;
Assessor;
Treasurer;
Sheriff;
Clerk and recorder; and
Any other department that the planning department determines may be affected by the application.
Departments shall have 14 days in which to review, comment and report to the planning department whether:
The property is, or is likely to be, necessary or desirable for any public purpose within the reasonably foreseeable future.
Any term, condition, reservation or dedication of any easement or interest in the property necessary or desirable for public purposes.
Any other comment relevant to the property.
Concurrent with staff review, notice and request for comment shall also be sent by first class mail to all public utilities, special districts, known neighborhood associations, towns, cities within one-half mile, and to any person that has requested, in writing, notice of the sale, vacation or abandonment.
The comments of the county departments shall be forwarded to the county manager, or his designee, and reviewed on the next available staff meeting agenda. The recommendation of the county manager may then be forwarded to the planning commission for their consideration. The county manager shall have the discretion to expedite these procedures.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.3.d; Res. No. 2004-20, § 1, 6-28-2004; Res. No. 2008-30, § 1, 11-12-2008)
Effective on: 8/28/2012
Sec. 94-35. - Board of county commissioners proceedings.
Planning commission recommendation. The review of the proposed vacation of rights-of-way or sale of real property by the planning commission shall be in the form of a recommendation.
Public hearing. A public hearing before the
board of county commissioners
shall be held. The public hearing in the case of a requested vacation of rights-of-way shall be for the purpose of determining whether the right-of-way shall be vacated and the terms, conditions and reservations thereof. The public hearing in the event of a proposed sale of real property shall be for the purpose of determining whether the property shall be put up for bid and the terms, conditions and reservations thereof.
Action.
Vacation proceedings. If the board of county commissioners approve the vacation of any right-of-way, it shall direct that a resolution be prepared to that effect for its consideration. Vacated rights-of-way shall vest according to C.R.S. § 43-2-301 et seq. upon recordation of the vacation resolution.
Sale proceedings. If the board of county commissioners approves placing real property up for bid, it shall direct that the bid procedures as set forth in this subsection (III)(B) be followed:
Treasurer's deeds. If the real property proposed for sale is held by the
county
pursuant to a treasurer's deed, the bid procedures contained in C.R.S. § 39-11-143 shall be applicable.
Other real property. If the real property proposed for sale is held by the county, other than pursuant to the treasurer's deed, a bid notice shall be posted in a public place at the county courthouse not less than 30 days prior to the date of sale, and such notice shall be advertised in two issues of a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Such notice shall appear one week apart and within 30 days as provided in this subsection (III)(B)2. Such notice shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids. In addition thereto, the board of county commissioners shall reserve the right to impose additional bid terms and conditions, and to award the bid to the bidder which shall present the bid which is, in the sole discretion of the board of county commissioners, the best bid considering all of the terms, conditions, evidence and public interest.
Bids opened publicly. Bids shall be publicly opened at the time and place specified in the bid notice. Bids received shall be presented to the board of county commissioners for their consideration and direction.
(LPLUS, § 1.17.4)
Effective on: 10/25/2016
Sec. 94-36. - Vacation of eligible county road rights-of-way.
A portion of or an entire public right-of-way shall be eligible for vacation pursuant to this section only if the following criteria are met:
The proposed vacation is based upon a past, present or proposed future relocation, reconstruction, or construction of a public road or path on or adjacent to a portion of public right-of-way; and
The
county
determines that the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way is located entirely within the county and is not within the limits of any city or town; and
The county determines that the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way does not constitute a boundary line between two counties or a boundary line between the county and a city or town; and
The county determines that the proposed vacation does not leave any land adjoining said roadway without an established public road or private access easement connecting said land with another established public road; and
The county determines that county ownership of the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way no longer serves a public purpose.
If a right-of-way or a portion of right-of-way is eligible for vacation pursuant to this section, the road and bridge department shall request a public hearing before the
board of county commissioners
. At least ten days before any such hearing, notice of the hearing shall be mailed by first class mail to the last known address of each landowner who owns land within 500 feet of the right-of-way that is proposed to be vacated. Such notice shall include the time and place of the county commissioner meeting and shall indicate that a resolution to vacate the county roadway will be presented at the meeting.
At the hearing contemplated by subsection (II), the road and bridge department and any affected land-owner shall be entitled to present evidence. If the board of county commissioners determines in their discretion that the requirements of this section are met, and that it is in the best interests of the county to do so, the board of county commissioners may by resolution vacate the right-of-way or a portion thereof with such conditions or reservations as are proper. Title to the vacated lands shall vest pursuant to C.R.S. § 43-2-302.
(Res. No. 2002-5, § 2, 1-7-2002)
Effective on: 8/28/2012
Sec. 94-37. - Recording of documents vacating or abandoning a roadway.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 43-1-202.7, if any roadway is vacated or abandoned by the
county
, the documents vacating or abandoning such roadway, including but not necessarily limited to any resolution, ordinance, deed, conveyance document, plat or survey, shall be recorded in the office of the clerk and recorder of the county.
(Res. No. 2002-5, § 3, 1-7-2002)
Effective on: 8/28/2012