Chapter 80: Enforcement and Penalties
Sec. 80-5 Enforcement options
This chapter generally sets forth the enforcement options available that may be taken by the persons authorized by this chapter to enforce the code to address violations. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the director, county attorney or board from exercising discretion to pursue one (1) or more option, remedies or any combination thereof, as provided by this code or Colorado law.
I.
Violation determinations
.
A.
Notice to correct violation. If reasonable cause exists to believe a violation has occurred, a notice to correct violation shall be sent certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner’s mailing address as listed in the records of the county assessor’s office and to the mailing address of the real property in question, if an address exists. The notice to correct violation shall state which requirements of the code or conditions of approval for the project are being violated, shall state the conditions that are to be satisfied for compliance and shall state the violations shall be corrected within thirty (30) days after the date of the notice. The notice to correct violation may require correction within a period less than thirty (30) days if the director determines the violation presents an immediate risk to the public health, safety and welfare. The director may approve additional time to correct the violation if good cause is shown.
B.
Violation determination. If the violation is not corrected within the period established in the notice to correct violation or approved extension of time, the director may issue a violation determination and authorize the county attorney to pursue the remedies described in this chapter or otherwise available by law, subject to appeal as set forth in subsection 80-5.IV. The director shall deliver the violation determination to the owner, occupant or alleged violator by certified mail, return receipt requested, and by posting the violation determination in a conspicuous location on the parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility, if reasonably accessible. The director or the county attorney may also record the violation determination in the property records in the county clerk and recorder’s office. The violation determination shall:
1.
State the nature of the violation;
2.
State the date and manner of service of any previous notice to correct the violation;
3.
State that the owner, occupant or alleged violator may appeal the violation determination to the board within ten (10) days after the date of the violation determination and, in the absence of such appeal, the violation determination shall become final and the county attorney may pursue remedies under this chapter and other applicable law;
4.
Inform the owner, occupant or alleged violator that the appeal must be submitted to the director in writing.
II.
Stop order; immediate compliance
.
A.
Issuance of stop order. As an alternative to, or in addition to, the notice to correct violation described in this chapter, the director may, by written notice in the form of a “stop order”, order the activity or use stopped immediately. The issuance of a stop order is not a prerequisite to any other enforcement mechanism or remedies available to the county.
B.
Service of the stop order. The stop order shall be served, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to any person engaged in the activity, development or use, or to any person owning, leasing, occupying or controlling all or any portion of the parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility, or by posting the order in a conspicuous location on the parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility. The posted stop order shall not be removed until the violation is corrected.
C.
Compliance with order. All persons shall comply immediately with the stop order upon its service or posting.
D.
Contents of stop order. The stop order shall:
1.
State the nature of the violation and activity or use that must immediately cease;
2.
State that the owner, occupant or alleged violator may appeal the stop order to the board within three (3) business days after the date of the stop order and, in the absence of such appeal, the order shall become final and the county attorney may pursue remedies under this chapter and other applicable law if the stop order is violated;
3.
Inform the owner, occupant or alleged violator that the appeal must be submitted to the director in writing.
E.
Stop order lifted only by compliance order. The stop order shall remain in effect until the director determines the activity, development or condition that is the basis for the stop order has been remedied and the director issues a written compliance order or, alternatively the board lifts the stop order after conducting an appeal hearing consistent with the process described in subsection 80-5.IV, provided, however the timing and notice of the appeal hearing may be modified by the board or director to expedite the process due to the urgent nature of the situation.
F.
Failure to comply. If the stop order is violated, the director may authorize the county attorney to pursue the remedies described in this chapter or otherwise available by law, subject to appeal as described in subsection 80-5.IV.
III.
Temporary suspension or permanent revocation of permit.
The decision-making body may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke an approved land use permit. A suspension order shall remain in effect until the decision-making body issuing the suspension finds the activity or condition that is the basis for the suspension has been remedied, and the decision-making body issues a written compliance finding. Before making a temporary suspension or permanent revocation, the county shall give the owner written notice of the violation by certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner may appeal the temporary suspension or permanent revocation to the board within ten (10) days after the date of the suspension or revocation determination and, in the absence of such appeal, the suspension or revocation shall become final. Appeals of the suspension or revocation may be taken as described in subsection 80-5.IV. In the event of a permanent revocation, the director shall file a certified statement of revocation with the county clerk and recorder.
IV.
Appeal hearing
. If the dirdirectorector receives a timely appeal of the stop order, violation determination or temporary suspension or permanent revocation, the director shall place the matter on the board’s next available land use hearing agenda. The appealing party shall be notified of the date, time and place of the hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the appealing party’s mailing address as listed in the records of the county assessor’s office no less than five (5) days prior to the hearing.
At the appeal hearing, the appealing party shall have the opportunity to present evidence and testimony to show cause why further enforcement action should not be taken. The board shall consider all such evidence and testimony, along with any presentation, evidence or testimony presented by the director or staff, in reaching its decision to affirm or overturn the decision to issue the stop order or violation determination.
Within five (5) business days after conclusion of the appeal hearing, the board may decide to overturn the decision or may affirm the decision and instruct the director or county attorney to proceed with one (1) or more of the enforcement mechanisms described in this chapter or otherwise available by law. The appeal hearing shall not be considered a quasi-judicial or legislative action under any circumstances.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 80-5, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020