Chapter 65 Animas Valley Zone Districts and Economic Development Areas
Overview
This
code
is premised upon
performance-based zoning
and the type of standards more particularly described in the overview of chapter 70. However, in the Animas Valley,
traditional zoning
has been adopted. This chapter contains detailed
use
,
density
and
lot
standards for
development
covered by the Animas Valley Land Use Plan (AVLUP). Applications for
development
in the Animas Valley should refer to this chapter to determine (1) if the proposed use is allowed and what type of review procedures apply, (2) what minimum
lot size
, maximum
density
, minimum
open space
and maximum
impervious coverage
standards may apply, and (3) whether any supplemental use,
density
and
development
standards are applicable because of the property’s location in the Animas Valley River Corridor District or one of several Animas Valley Neighborhood Overlay Zoning Districts.
This chapter is also intended to accommodate future placement of unique standards that may apply to economic
development
areas, once designated under section 66-38, or future overlay areas that may be adopted relative to requirements for
affordable housing
or other matters.
Sec. 65-6 Crowbar Creek Planning Area
I.
Applicability.
The Crowbar Creek Planning Area was adopted as a neighborhood overlay in 1994 (Resolution No. 1994-29). Except as otherwise provided in this section, all other provisions of this code shall apply within the Crowbar Creek Planning Area. The Crowbar Creek Planning Area is depicted on the Crowbar Creek Area Map.
II.
Standards.
A.
Density. A maximum of two (2) dwelling units per thirty-five (35) acres are allowed.
B.
Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size shall be thirty-five (35) acres for any newly created lot.
C.
Building setbacks. The front yard building setback shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet. Side yard and rear yard building setbacks shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet each.
D.
Permitted uses.
Single-family residential
and agricultural uses are allowed, as provided in section 66-3. A second dwelling on a lot may be permitted as provided in section 73-3. Home occupations on a lot may also be permitted as an accessory use pursuant to section 73-2. However, allowable home occupations shall be limited to not more than eight hundred (800) square feet of building area within a single development and thereby shall be limited to accessory uses permitted with
administrative land use permits
. Development applications for lot sizes or uses not otherwise allowed within the Crowbar Creek Planning Area shall require a major land use permit, with a mandatory compatibility assessment pursuant to section 70-5.
E.
Outdoor lighting. Outdoor yard lighting, either mounted on poles or on buildings, are permitted. New lighting shall be shielded so that light is directed downward so as not to glare onto a neighboring property or dilute the night sky.
F.
Water wells. To ensure adequate water quantity and quality in the Crowbar Creek Planning Area, per section 70-4, any application for any permit shall first require findings of adequate water supply taken from a test well located on the site.
G.
Wildlife protection corridor. To provide a haven for big game and other wildlife, there is an established wildlife corridor as shown on the Crowbar Creek Planning Area Map. In the wildlife protection corridor, no permanent structures are permitted or allowed. Fencing within the wildlife protection corridor is discouraged. Any fence constructed in the corridor shall not exceed a height of forty-two (42) inches and shall conform to division of wildlife standards for materials, spacing, clearance and other design criteria.
H.
Fencing. So that wildlife movement into and out of the wildlife protection corridor is not impeded, any fencing outside of the wildlife corridor is encouraged to follow the fencing design plans of the Colorado Parks and Wildlife. Fencing materials are not limited within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any dwelling (outside of the wildlife corridor). Opaque fencing is not permitted further than one hundred fifty (150) feet from any dwelling.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 65-6, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020