Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE V METHODS OF COMPETITIVE SOURCE SELECTION FOR STANDARD PURCHASES
This article describes the appropriate methods of competitive source selection for
standard purchases
(i.e., purchases with a contract requirement of more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Generally, while
IFBs
or
RFPs
will be used, the
contract manager
in consultation with the finance director, may also determine that an
RFI
,
RFQ
or other tools should also be utilized. When such tools are used, the procurement division will outline the process to be used, in writing, prior to letting a
solicitation
. The provisions of this article do not apply to the source selection methods applicable to
small purchases
or
simplified purchases
.
Sec. 20-56   Public records and confidential bids or proposals
I.
Timing
. Upon
contract
award
, information contained in
bids
and
proposals
that is retained by the county becomes subject to requests for inspection in accordance with the CORA.
II.
Documents labeled as confidential
. If the county receives an open records request that covers information included in a bid or proposal that has been designated as a trade-secret, proprietary or otherwise “confidential,” by a
bidder
, offeror,
vendor
or
contractor
, the contract manager will examine the designated documents to determine if they should be protected from disclosure.
A.
If some or all of the information reviewed contains information, identified and marked as
confidential information
by the bidder, offeror, vendor or contractor in writing, the procurement division will not disclose the information; provided that the bidder, offeror, vendor or contractor agrees to indemnify, save and hold the county harmless from any claims, costs, expenses, damages or liabilities, including but not limited to attorneys’ fees and court costs, incurred based on withholding such information and data.
1.
No bid, proposal or contract may be considered confidential in its entirety. Any attempt to mark any entire document as such may result in rejection of a bid, proposal or other offer.
2.
Overall bid, proposal or contract prices will not be considered confidential.
B.
If the county and the offeror do not agree about whether information or documents should be made available based on the data provided by the bidder, offeror, vendor or contractor, the county will disclose what it deems appropriate unless the bidder, offeror, vendor or contractor agrees, in writing, to defend and indemnify the county for withholding such information.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-56, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021