Chapter 10 ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Predatory
animal
control
committee, § 2-566 et seq.;
undesirable plant
and
rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Dumping
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612
Division 4.  Impoundment; Disposition
Contents:
Sec. 10-40.  Impoundment Authorized
Sec. 10-41.  Notice; Period of Impoundment
Sec. 10-42.  Disposition of Impounded Animals
Sec. 10-43.  Destruction of Vicious Animals and Animals with Rabies
Sec. 10-40. Impoundment Authorized
In accordance with the provisions of this Chapter 10,
animal control officers
may, in their discretion, seize and impound
pet animals
, including
livestock
:
I.
At-Large; or
II.
Appearing to be sick or injured, whose
owner
cannot be identified or located; or
III.
Suspected, based on probable cause, to be a
guard dog
not kept in accordance with these regulations; or
IV.
Suspected, based on probable cause, or found to be a
vicious animal
or dangerous
animal
not kept in accordance with these regulations; or
V.
Abandoned, neglected, mistreated or otherwise suffering from
cruelty to animals
; or
VI.
Otherwise being kept in violation of these regulations.
No person shall refuse to immediately deliver up or release any animal to an animal control officer upon lawful demand to seize and impound the
animal.
An animal control officer shall have the right to enter upon private property when necessary to seize an animal described above.  Authorized entry shall not include entry into a domicile, enclosed building or structure, or any enclosure that confines the
dog
on private property without consent of the owner or resident of the property or an order from the court.    If an owner refuses or fails to deliver or release an animal or if an owner cannot be found, and upon presentation of a motion and an affidavit establishing probable cause that the animal is (1) sick or injured, (2) a vicious animal or dangerous animal, or (3) is abandoned, neglected, mistreated or otherwise suffering from cruelty to animals, a court may issue a warrant for search and seizure to preserve evidence or protect the public’s and/or animal’s safety and welfare, pursuant to Crim. P. Rule 41(b), as amended.
Effective on: 1/17/2017
Sec. 10-41. Notice; Period of Impoundment
I.
Notice.
When any
animal
has been impounded in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter 10, personnel from the
animal shelter
or other impound facility shall make reasonable efforts to notify the
owner
by telephone, posting a notice at the owner’s residence, or by written notice mailed to the owner’s last known address.  If the animal’s owner is unknown, notice of impoundment giving a general description of the animal and the time and general location the animal was picked up from will be posted at the shelter or impound facility.  Records of notification, including the times, dates and manner of notifications shall be kept by shelter or impound facility personnel, and such records shall be prima facie evidence of notification or attempted notification.
II.
Period of Impoundment.
A.
Minimum Period; Generally
.  Except as otherwise set forth in this subsection II, if no owner appears to claim an impounded animal and pay the costs and fees of impoundment and boarding, together with any fines or penalties due, within five (5) days after acquisition by the shelter or impound facility, the animal shall be deemed abandoned and may become available for adoption or otherwise disposed of at the discretion of the animal shelter or impound facility.
Notwithstanding the general five (5) day impound period, and except as otherwise set forth in this subsection II, if the shelter director determines that the animal is without identification, including but not limited to a microchip or collar, the animal shall be deemed abandoned and may become available for adoption or otherwise disposed of in three (3) days if the shelter or impound facility has no additional resources for such animal or determines that the animal is dangerous, pursuant to C.R.S. § 35-80-106.3, as amended.
B.
Sick or Injured
Animal.
An impounded animal, including an animal impounded on suspicion of animal cruelty or suspicion of being a vicious or dangerous animal, that is critically injured or ill and in pain or contagious to other animals is not subject to the minimum impoundment period.  Such animal may immediately be humanely euthanized
if
(1) in the opinion of a veterinarian the animal is experiencing extreme pain or suffering or is severely injured past recovery, severely disabled past recovery, or severely diseased past recovery and it is in the animal’s best interest to be euthanized;
and
(2) the shelter or impound facility has exhausted reasonable efforts to contact the owner.  For animals with identification, the animal shelter or impound facility shall make reasonable efforts to contact the owner for up to twenty-four (24) hours.
C.
Vicious Animal
or Dangerous Animal.
An animal suspected or found to be a dangerous animal or vicious animal and impounded pursuant to Section
10-30
(VII) will not be released from impoundment to its owner during pendency of any proceedings for violations of this article unless ordered by the court or approved by the director of the animal shelter or impound facility.
Except as set forth in subsection II.B. above, within ten (10) days after an animal is impounded under Section 10-40, the owner may prevent disposition of the animal by the animal shelter or impound facility by: (1) filing a bond or payment for impoundment, boarding and care costs with the county court in an amount determined by the shelter or impound facility to be sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and provision for at least thirty (30) days, including the day on which the animal was taken into custody; or (2) requesting a hearing in the county court.  Notice of a request for a hearing must be provided to the District Attorney and shelter or impound facility.  At the hearing, the court shall determine, as appropriate, whether costs associated with impoundment, boarding and care, as determined by the shelter or impound facility, are fair, reasonable and necessary and whether there was sufficient probable cause for impoundment. If probable cause for impoundment is found, the animal’s owner shall file a bond or payment of the costs determined reasonable at the hearing.  A warrant issued in accordance with Crim. R. Pro. 41(b) authorizing seizure of the impounded animal constitutes prima facie evidence of sufficient cause for impoundment.
At least ten (10) days prior to the end of the time for which expenses are covered by an initial or any subsequent payment by the owner, the owner must file a new bond or payment with the court for the continued impoundment, boarding and care of the impounded animal.
Failure to file bond or payment for the costs of impoundment, boarding and care as set forth in this section results in forfeiture of the right to contest such costs and to any ownership rights in the animal in question.  Such animal shall be deemed released to the animal shelter of impound agency for disposition as it deems appropriate, unless there is an order from the court prohibiting disposition.
D.
Animal Cruelty.
Any animal impounded due to suspicion of animal cruelty shall not be released from impoundment to its owner during the pendency of any proceeding for violations of this article unless ordered by the court or approved by the director of the animal shelter or impound facility.
Except as set forth in subsection II.B. above, within ten (10) days after an animal is impounded under Section
10-40
, the owner may prevent disposition of the animal by the animal shelter or impound facility by: (1) filing a bond or payment for impoundment, boarding and care costs with the county court in an amount determined by the shelter or impound facility to be sufficient to provide for the animal’s care and provision for at least thirty (30) days, including the day on which the animal was taken into custody; or (2) requesting a hearing in the county court.  Notice of a request for a hearing must be provided to the District Attorney and shelter or impound facility.  At the hearing, the court shall determine, as appropriate, whether costs associated with impoundment, boarding and care, as determined by the shelter or impound facility, are fair, reasonable and necessary and whether there was sufficient probable cause for impoundment. If probable cause for impoundment is found, the animal’s owner shall file a bond or payment of the costs determined reasonable at the hearing.  A warrant issued in accordance with Crim. R. Pro. 41(b) authorizing seizure of the impounded animal constitutes prima facie evidence of sufficient cause for impoundment.
At least ten (10) days prior to the end of the time for which expenses are covered by an initial or any subsequent payment by the owner, the owner must file a new bond or payment with the court for the continued impoundment, boarding and care of the impounded animal.
Failure to file bond or payment for the costs of impoundment, boarding and care as set forth in this section results in forfeiture of the right to contest such costs and to any ownership rights in the animal in question.  Such animal shall be deemed released to the animal shelter of impound agency for disposition as it deems appropriate, unless there is an order from the court prohibiting disposition.
III.
Liability for Expenses
.
An owner shall be obligated to reimburse the animal shelter or impound facility for all expenses incurred as a result of seizure and impoundment of an animal when the owner pleads or is found guilty, accepts a plea agreement, deferred sentence or diversion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any animal impounded on suspicion of: (1) being a vicious or dangerous animal that is found not guilty by a court of being dangerous or vicious, or (2)
cruelty to animals
where the owner is found not guilty by the court of animal cruelty, shall be returned to its owner subject to payment of fees for medical care, but without liability to boarding and impound fees.
Effective on: 1/17/2017
Sec. 10-42. Disposition of Impounded Animals
Any animal not properly redeemed by the end of any required impoundment or observation period shall become the property of the
animal shelter
or impound facility.  The animal may then be disposed of by the shelter or impound facility by adoption, transfer to another licensed shelter or rescue group or humane euthanasia.
Effective on: 1/17/2017
Sec. 10-43. Destruction of Vicious Animals and Animals with Rabies
Nothing in this Part 4 shall be construed to prevent
animal control officers
from taking whatever action is reasonably necessary to protect themselves and the public from injury by any
animal.
Animal control officers are authorized to take appropriate measures, including destruction of the animal involved, to prevent death or
bodily injury
to the officer, other persons,
domestic animals
or
wildlife
by vicious animals, dangerous animals or animals with rabies.  Destruction of a vicious animal or animal with rabies, without notice to its
owner
, is authorized under this section only when no other means, including impoundment, can be employed to prevent death or injury.
Effective on: 1/17/2017