Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
La Plata
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-271 et seq.
State Law reference—
Emergency medical services, C.R.S. § 25-3.5-101 et seq.
DIVISION 4. REGULATIONS
Sec. 26-145. Guidelines and hearing procedures for review of applications for authorizations to operate.
I.
A
n application for an authorization to operate shall be submitted to the county emergency medical services council and the
Board of County Commissioners
simultaneously. A hearing on the new request shall be held no later than 90 days after the filing of a complete application.
II.
A
n application for an authorization to operate
shall contain an application
as specified in section
26-95
.
III.
Th
e Board of County Commissioners will notify the applicant and county emergency medical services council upon its determination that the application is complete and the intended hearing date. The Board of County Commissioners delegates authority to the county manager, and other county staff designated by the county manager, to review and determine the completeness of applications as well as to review and make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners regarding an application’s compliance with this chapter 26 and other applicable law. The county emergency medical services council will review, evaluate and make a recommendation based on compliance with chapter 26, other applicable law, and county emergency medical services council’s assessment of the needs of the county. The county emergency medical services council’s recommendation and explanation of its analysis shall be made in writing and provided to the applicant and the Board of County Commissioners no later than 60 days after receipt of a complete application.
IV.
An applicant is authorized and encouraged to communicate directly with the county emergency medical services council before submission of its application, during the pendency of its application, and in response to the county emergency medical service council’s initial recommendation. The county emergency medical services council shall submit to the Board of County Commissioners any revisions or updates to its written recommendation as soon as is practicable
.
V.
The review criteria for an application includes, and the
Board of County Commissioners
at its hearing shall consider the following:
A.
The need, justification and supporting documents for the service, including without limitation, proof of all necessary licenses issued by the state.
B.
Type of service and staffing, i.e., advanced cardiac life support or basic cardiac life support and structure of the applicant, i.e., private, nonprofit, special district, etc.
C.
Applicant's track record in the ambulance service.
D.
Response time to the nearest appropriate medical facility. (Location from where the ambulance will be operated.)
E.
Anticipated charges for service and collection policies.
F.
Description of area to be served, primary service area, boundaries, square miles, map included.
G.
Agreements with other ambulance agencies, i.e., mutual aid or automatic aid.
H.
Statement on how the new service will interact or conflict with existing services and fire agencies.
I.
Demographics of the proposed service area.
J.
Hazards specific to the area or special circumstances.
K.
Other information as requested by or included within the applications.
L.
Compliance with all applicable local, state, federal, and tribal law and regulations.
Res. No.
1997-59
, § VII(1), 10/10/1997; Res. No.
2024-23
, §  06/25/2024
Effective on: 7/1/2024