Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 2: Road Impact Fees
Sec. 44-24 Calculation of applicable road impact fee.
I.
Base fee calculation. Upon receipt of a complete application for a
building permit
or
qualifying land use permit
, the
community development department
shall determine the following:
A.
The type of land use proposed;
B.
If a residential land use is proposed, the number, type, and size (in square feet) of
dwelling units
(or, if an expansion of existing residential, the amount of increased square footage);
C.
If a non-residential land use is proposed, the
gross floor area
(in square feet) of such non-residential development (or, if an expansion of existing non-residential, the amount of increased square footage).
After making these determinations, the community development department shall multiply the number of dwelling units (by size categories) and/or the gross floor area (by land use type and per 1,000 square feet) by the applicable listing in the
road impact fee schedule
adopted by resolution of the board, or revised thereafter pursuant to the requirements of this division, to derive the base impact fee due. For
new development
that involves the expansion of existing development, the community development department shall assess the impact fee only on new dwelling units and additional square footage (of both residential and non-residential developments). The calculation of the impact fee for the addition of new square footage to an existing dwelling unit shall be as set forth in a separate schedule adopted for residential additions. The impact fee schedules shall be maintained and published as a new “Road Impact Fee” subpart of the “Community Development” section of Appendix A of the code.
II.
Additional calculation considerations.
A.
If the type of new development proposed is not expressly listed in the fee schedule, the community development department shall:
1.
Identify the listed land use with the most similar trip generation characteristics and calculate the base impact fee based on that land use; or
2.
Identify the broader land use category within which the proposed new development would most appropriately fit and calculate the base impact fee pursuant to that land use; or
3.
Authorize the applicant to conduct a
traffic analysis
pursuant to subsection 74-3.IV of the county code for the proposed new development. The traffic analysis shall be paid for by the applicant, performed by a qualified traffic engineer, and subject to the approval of the county engineer.  The county, at its own expense, may perform an additional traffic analysis to verify the applicant’s traffic analysis.  For a new development that is not expressly listed in the fee schedule and is within a subdivision that was required to provide a traffic analysis as part of the subdivision’s approval by the board, the applicant may utilize a traffic analysis that is compliant with subsection 74-3.IV of the code to calculate the appropriate fee.
B.
If the new development proposed has multiple types of uses, each identified use shall be subject to a separate impact fee calculation, unless the applicant can document that the effect of the multiple uses is to reduce the number of trips otherwise generated by each individual principal land use.
C.
If the type of new development is a qualifying land use permit for an accessory use or
accessory rural occupation
, as defined in chapter 62 of this code, the gross floor area of the portion devoted to the non-residential development shall be calculated and this portion shall be the sole amount due at the time of collection specified in section 44-25.  If the type of new development is a building permit for an existing residential structure that received an accessory use or accessory rural occupation
land use permit
, the gross floor area of the portion devoted to the non-residential development shall be calculated.
D.
All impact fee calculations shall be based upon the fee schedule adopted by county resolution and in effect at the time of complete application for the building permit or qualifying land use permit.
III.
Eligibility for credits.
Credits against the base impact fee calculated to be due from a new development pursuant to subsections I and II, above, shall be made to avoid over-charging an applicant when any one or more of the following circumstances exist:
A.
The applicant is within a subdivision that was approved by the board and the subdivision constructed all or a portion of a
county road improvement
in accordance with the
road improvement plan
;
B.
The applicant has previously paid a fee or fees for all or a portion of a county road improvement required to serve the development for which the base impact fee is to be assessed; or
C.
The applicant is within the jurisdiction of a local improvement district, public improvement district, or special district, which assesses the applicant for all or a portion of county road improvements which is identified in the road improvement plan.  Credit shall not be provided for the value of any road
right-of-way
or associated acquisition costs that may have been dedicated, since right-of-way costs are not included in the impact fee calculations.
IV.
Equitable apportionment of credits.
Credits for county road improvements shall be equitably assigned to properties within the subdivisions for which the improvements were provided.
V.
Application for credits.
Applications for credits shall be made by the applicant before the issuance of a building permit or qualifying land use permit on a credit application/calculation form provided by the community development department.  The application form shall be completed and shall be accompanied by appropriate documentary evidence demonstrating the eligibility of the applicant for the credit. The community development department shall verify the eligibility for, and the amount of, the credit due.  The credit shall be applied against the base impact fee; provided, however, that in no event shall the credit exceed the amount of the base impact fee otherwise calculated to be due pursuant to subsections 44-24.I and II, above.
VI.
Calculation of credits.
In calculating the credit due to the applicant, the applicant shall provide sufficient documentation to the community development department to verify:
A.
The amount of the fee paid by the applicant or developer for a county road improvement identified in the road improvement plan; and/or
B.
The amount of construction costs incurred by the applicant or developer for a county road improvement identified in the road improvement plan, or the estimate of such cost made at the time of the
improvement agreement
.
The credit shall be the sum of the applicant’s expenditures for fees and construction costs (of which no more than twenty (20) percent may be related to engineering and construction management) for a county road improvement identified in the
road improvement plan
.
Res. No.
2024-31
, §  08/27/2024
Effective on: 8/27/2024