Chapter 100 SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Sec. 100-2. Submittal and review process.
Pre-application conference and review. Prior to the submittal of a service plan, the
person
(s) proposing the organization of a special district (the "
applicant
")
shall
meet with planning
staff
for a pre-application conference. The purpose of the conference is for staff to provide to the applicant an explanation of the
county
's special district review process, service plan submittal requirements and to discuss the need for the proposed district. While compliance with the requirements of the
Control
Act and related statutes is required, the planning
director
may
determine that some of the additional requirements set forth in subsection 100-3(II) are not necessary due to the geographical size of the service area or the complexity of the services to be provided. The applicability of such additional requirements may be decided during the pre-application conference.
Draft service plan submittal. After attending the pre-application conference and at least 45 days prior to the anticipated date for formal service plan submittal, as defined in subsection (III), the applicant shall submit four copies of the draft service plan to planning staff for review.
The planning
department
, public works, the finance department and the county attorney's office (the "district review committee") shall review the draft service plan for completeness and consistency with the Control Act and the provisions of this chapter. Planning staff shall notify the applicant of deficiencies in the draft service plan and other comments of the district review committee within 30 calendar days of applicant's submittal.
If the proposed special district is being formed in conjunction with a
development
agreement, the service plan review process and the development agreement process shall be coordinated. The review process should occur concurrently.
Service plan submittal. Issues or comments identified in the review of the district review committee shall be addressed prior to submittal of a final service plan. The applicant shall submit the proposed service plan, a completed service plan application form, and applicable application fees to the planning department. Staff shall have ten days to determine whether the applicant has submitted all the necessary components of the service plan as defined in section
100-3.
If staff determines that the submitted service plan or application is incomplete, the applicant shall be notified of such deficiencies in writing within ten days of applicant's submittal to the planning department. If the service plan is deemed complete, the applicant shall formally submit one copy of the service plan to the county clerk and recorder and such additional copies as determined to be appropriate at the preapplication conference, as well as an electronic copy, to the planning department.
Referral and review. No more than five days after the formal submittal of the service plan, the county clerk and recorder, on behalf of the
BOCC
, shall report to the division of local government in the department of local affairs on forms furnished by said division the name and type of the proposed special district for which the service plan has been filed.
Planning staff shall refer the service plan to all municipalities and existing special districts within a radius of three miles from the boundaries of the proposed special district. In
addition
, the service plan shall be referred to any municipality whose intergovernmental agreement with the county includes any part of the area proposed to be in the special district and to the appropriate school district(s) for information and comment. All municipalities, existing special districts, and school districts to which the plan is referred shall have 15 days to submit comments to the planning department. All such comments shall then be referred to the district review committee for further review.
Planning staff shall submit all comments, findings and recommendations from the district review committee and the referral agencies in the form of a staff report to the applicant, the PC and the BOCC. The applicant may withdraw the service plan at any time during the referral and review process.
Planning commission
review of draft service plan. The planning commission shall review the proposed service plan at a public hearing and shall make a written recommendation to the BOCC. At such hearing, the PC shall consider the service plan utilizing the BOCC's review criteria located in subsection 100-5(II) and recommend denial, conditional approval, or approval to the BOCC. The planning commission shall make its recommendation no more than 30 days after submission of the proposed service plan to the clerk and recorder. The planning commission also may continue the hearing to a set date and time to resolve any outstanding issues but shall not continue the hearing beyond the established recommendation deadline without the consent of the applicant. The applicant's consent to the continuance shall relieve the planning commission from having to make their recommendation within 30 days after submission of the proposed service plan with the clerk and recorder.
BOCC review of and
action
on service plan. At the next regular meeting of the BOCC that is held at least ten days after the final PC action on the service plan, the BOCC shall set a date no more than 30 days after such meeting for a public hearing on the service plan. The clerk to the
board
shall provide written notice of the date, time, and location of such hearing to the division of local government. The board may continue the hearing for a period not to exceed 30 days unless the applicant and the board agree to continue the hearing for a longer period.
The BOCC shall consider the service plan at public hearing and shall deny, conditionally approve, or approve the service plan in accordance with section
100-5.
If the BOCC finds that sufficient information has not been presented at the scheduled hearing, the BOCC may deny the service plan or continue the hearing as provided herein.
Public notice requirements. On behalf of the BOCC, planning staff shall provide written notice of the date, time, and location of the planning commission and BOCC public hearing to the applicant and any municipality or special district within a radius of three miles of the proposed special district boundaries. In addition to the notice to municipalities and special districts, publication of the date, time, location, and purpose of the BOCC hearing shall be first made at least 20 days prior to the hearing date. Such publication shall include a general description of the land including a list of all
parcels
contained within the boundaries of the proposed special district and information outlining methods and procedures pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 32-1-203(3.5) concerning the filing of a petition for exclusion of territory. Such publications shall constitute constructive notice to the residents and property
owners
within the proposed special district who shall also be interested parties at the hearing.
Not more than 30 days nor less than 20 days prior to the public hearing before the BOCC, the applicant shall send letter notification of the hearing to the property owners within the boundaries of the proposed special district as listed in the records of the county assessor on the date requested unless the applicant represents 100 percent of the property owners. The notification shall indicate that it is a notice of a hearing for the organization of a special district and shall indicate the date, time, location, and purpose of such hearing, a reference to the type of special district, the maximum mill levy, if any, or stating that there is no maximum that may be imposed by the proposed special district, information as to how the recipient may obtain a copy of the service plan and procedures for the filing of a request for exclusion pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 32-1-203(3.5).
(Res. No. 2010-21, ยง 1(Exh. A), 4-20-2010, Res. No. 2016-1, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017