Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
SEc. 69-18 Permit administration, enforcement and appeal
I.
Enforce
ment and penalties.
A.
Any
person
engaging in a
development
in the designated area of state interest or conducting a designated activity of state interest who does not obtain a
permit
pursuant to this chapter, who does not comply with permit requirements, or who acts outside the jurisdiction of the permit may be enjoined by the
county
from engaging in such development, and may be subject to such other criminal or civil liability as may be prescribed by law.
B.
If the county
determines at any time that there are material changes in the construction or operation of the
project
from that approved by the county, the permit
may be immediately suspended upon written notice from the county to the permit holder, and a
hearing
shall be held to determine whether new conditions are necessary to ensure compliance with the approval criteria or if the permit should be revoked.
II.
Permit suspension or revocation.
A.
The
board
may temporarily suspend the permit
for a period of thirty (30) days for any violation of the permit or the applicable regulations. The permit holder shall be given written notice of the violation and will have a minimum of fifteen (15) days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected, the permit shall be suspended for thirty (30) days.
B.
The county
may revoke a permit
granted pursuant to this chapter if any of the activities conducted by the permittee violates the conditions of the permit or this chapter, or the county determines that the project
as constructed or operated has
impacts
not disclosed in the application. Prior to revocation, the permittee shall receive written notice and be given an opportunity for a hearing
before the board
. The board may revoke the permit or may specify a time by which action shall be taken to correct any violations for the permit to be retained. Revocation of a permit shall be a final determination subject to judicial review under subsection 69-18(V) below.
III.
Transfer of permits. A permit
may be transferred only with the written consent of the board
. Consent shall be in the sole discretion of the board. The board shall ensure, in approving any transfer, that the proposed transferee can and will comply with all the requirements, terms, and conditions contained in the permit and county regulations; that such requirements, terms, and conditions remain sufficient to protect the health, welfare, and safety of the public; and that an adequate guarantee of financial security can be made.
IV.
Inspection. The board, its employees and authorized agents may enter and inspect any property subject to this chapter at reasonable hours to determine whether the project is in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
V.
Judicial review. Any action seeking judicial review of a final decision of the board shall be initiated pursuant to applicable law.​​​​​​​
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-18, 10/01/2019
)
Effective on: 1/1/1901