Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-37 Prequalification of vendors
The county reserves the right to prequalify any bidder, vendor, supplier, contractor or proposer as in its sole discretion shall be deemed to be in the best interests of the county. Vendors may be prequalified on an annual basis or on a project by project basis. If prequalification is required for a project, such requirement shall be published in the invitation to bid.
I.
Continuing requirements; termination of prequalification
.
A.
Continuing requirements
. Prequalified bidders, vendors suppliers, contractors or proposers shall notify the county immediately of any significant change in their fiscal or workmanship qualifications, or of any action taken in any jurisdiction against the contractor or an affiliate of the contractor precluding its ability to bid on, perform work for, or otherwise in any manner participate in projects.
B.
Termination of prequalification
. The county may revoke or summarily suspend prequalification pursuant to this section if the procurement division, finance director or county manager determines that a bidder, vendor, supplier, contractor, proposer or affiliate of the same:
1.
Is declared by the county to be in default on any contract.
2.
Has made false, deceptive or fraudulent statements on its application for prequalification, in any documents connected with a bid or proposal including its performance capability statement, in any other information submitted to the county, or in the course of any determination associated with prequalification.
3.
Has failed to report any significant decreases in capabilities or limitations on bidding or performing work since applying for prequalification.
4.
Commits any action or inaction which evidences a lack of integrity in contract-related matters.
5.
No longer meets the criteria stated in the RFQ or RFI for which is submitted an application for prequalification.
(
Res. No. 2020-43, § 20-37, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021