Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE I – INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 20-2  Applicability
Except as specifically exempted by statute or resolution of the
BOCC
, this
code
applies to all publicly funded expenditures entered by and on behalf of the county for the purchase or lease of
goods
or
services
and to the disposal of county personal property purchased with public funds. All county employees shall adhere to these policies as part of their essential job functions.
In addition, while
elected officials
may adopt their own
procurement
procedures, to ensure compliance with federal procurement rules and regulations that are applicable to various federal grants and/or
contracts
, as well as support fair and consistent procurement procedures, elected officials and their offices are encouraged to adopt and abide by this code. Procurement assistance from county staff can only be provided to elected officials operating under this code.
The policies in this code do not apply to the following types of agreements:
1. Intergovernmental
agreements
or payments made pursuant to such agreements.
2. Memoranda of understanding or agreement.
3. The purchase, sale, or lease of real property.
4. Contracts to license and use Fairgrounds or Senior Center property.
5. Grant contracts.
6. Grants
awarded
by the Board of County Commissioners.
7. Permanent or temporary construction easements.
8. Right-of-way acquisitions.
9. Development agreements and development improvement agreements.
10. Road improvement agreements.
11.Fair share improvement agreements.
12. Debt service payments.
13. Settlement agreements or releases of claims.
14. Matters under the purview of the county attorney or district attorney, as applicable, that could be or are subject to settlement negotiations, mediation, arbitration or litigation, including but not limited to:
a. Contracts for litigation support or outside legal counsel retained by the county attorney or district                      attorney.
b. Contracts for expert witnesses retained by the county attorney, the county attorney’s consultants or the                        district attorney to consult with or testify on behalf of the county in connection with any judicial matter                        involving the county or any matter in which litigation, administrative or regulatory proceedings are                                reasonably anticipated.
c. Contracts for other litigation goods or services, including but not limited to consultants and experts,                             retained by the county attorney, the county attorney’s consultants or the district attorney in any matter                        in  which litigation is reasonably anticipated.
d. Transcripts or other records required by the county attorney or district attorney.
15. Any other purchase the BOCC formally determines to be exempt due to reasons not anticipated by this code.
Nothing in this code shall prevent the county from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, bequest, contract, or cooperative agreement that is otherwise consistent with the law. If any provision of this code causes denial of state or federal monies that would otherwise be available to the county or is inconsistent with requirements of state or federal law, that provision shall be suspended to the extent necessary to prevent denial of the monies or to eliminate the inconsistency with state or federal law. Specifically, when procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance or contract funds, procurement shall be conducted in accordance with any mandatory, applicable federal law and regulations.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-2, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021