Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-11 Plat modifications, adjustments and amendments
I.
Plat modifications.
Unless qualifying for a plat adjustment pursuant to subsection II below, or an amended plat pursuant to subsection III below, no use or development authorized by an approved or recorded plat pursuant to this code shall be altered, changed, or otherwise modified but rather shall require a new land use permit through the applicable land division procedure. Corrections to a recorded plat pursuant to C.R.S. § 38-51-111 shall be processed under section 67-10.
II.
Adjustments to an approved but not recorded plat.
A.
Applicability. The director may make adjustments to an approved but not yet recorded plat to provide expeditious relief to a permitee when an insubstantial change to a plat can solve a practical difficulty, assure compliance with applicable state or federal laws, or implement a permitee’s changed intentions for a permitted development. The director may issue a director determination letter to grant adjustments as follows:
1.
Permitted adjustments to plats. The director may grant an adjustment in the following circumstances:
a.
Minor deviations to roadway alignments;
b.
Minor adjustments to property lines which do not alter compliance with any required standard;
c.
Minor easement relocations or deviations with the consent of any parties benefitting from such easements;
d.
Decreases in density;
e.
Increased compliance with any voluntary guidelines.
2.
Prohibited adjustments. In no circumstances shall the director grant adjustments that result in the following:
a.
An increase in density;
b.
A reduction in open space;
c.
A change to a condition of approval to a land use permit which received final approval from the planning commission or board;
d.
A change to a plat notice or certificate that would decrease or eliminate compliance with a required standard;
e.
An adjustment to a property line or other change that would require re-subdivision;
f.
Any revision that would result in a violation of any applicable standard.
B.
Procedures. Plat adjustments shall follow the common procedures for a director determination in accordance with section 66-17.
C.
Approval criteria. The approval criteria for adjustments to an approved but not recorded plat are the general approval criteria for land use permits outlined in section 66-16 and the following:
1.
The adjusted plat has no potential to cause new or increased adverse impacts when compared to the original development.
2.
In all instances, an adjustment pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with the intent of this code and shall not be used to avoid compliance with applicable standards.
III.
Amendments to recorded plats.
A.
Applicability. Unless allowed as an adjustment in subsection II above, revisions under this section 67-11 to an existing recorded plat signed by the board may proceed as an amended plat pursuant to this subsection III if the proposal satisfies all of the following:
1.
The changed aspects of the plat comply with all currently applicable standards contained in this code.
2.
The amended plat complies with all applicable conditions of approval contained in the original land use permit.
3.
The development does not require new or changed mitigation measures to remain compatible pursuant to this code.
B.
Procedures. Amended plats shall follow the common procedures for administrative land use permits in accordance with section 66-18.
C.
Approval criteria. The approval criteria for amendments to recorded plats are the general approval criteria for land use permits outlined in section 66-16.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 67-11, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020