Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-5 General restrictions on licensed premises and places of business
I.
General restrictions
.
A.
Licensed premises for businesses other than operators
. A licensed premises under this article shall not be:
1.
Located in a building that has any portion of it classified as residential under the county building code.
2.
Located in the same location as or within one thousand (1,000) feet of a location which an application for a license was denied within the two (2) years immediately preceding the date of the application because of the nature of the use or other concerns related to location. For purposes of this provision, the distance shall be calculated by direct measurement between the closest point of the structure(s) enclosing the licensed premises and the closest point on the property line of the location where an application was denied.
3.
Located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private preschool, elementary school, middle school, junior high school, or high school, including any kindergarten program operated by such schools; and within five hundred (500) feet of (i) the campus of any college, university, seminary, or childcare facility; or (ii) a drug or alcohol rehabilitation treatment center.
For purposes of this provision, the distance shall be calculated by direct measurement between the closest point of the structure(s) enclosing the licensed premises and the closest point on the property line of the parcel upon which any of the above referenced uses are located. In the instance where the proximity restriction of a licensed marijuana business is encroached upon by one of the land uses identified above in this subsection, the marijuana business is encroached upon by one of the land uses identified above in this subsection, the marijuana business may be permitted to expand or be modified, pursuant to the applicable process provided that it was a legally established land use that preceded the protected encroaching use.
4.
Located within three (3) miles of the nearest incorporated portions of the town of Ignacio at the time a complete application for a new license is accepted by the county. The measurement shall be a direct line between the closest point of the licensed premises and the boundary of the closest parcel incorporated in the town of Ignacio.
5.
Located within three (3) miles of the nearest incorporated portions of the town of Bayfield at the time a complete application for a new license is accepted by the county; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to a medical marijuana cultivation facility or a retail marijuana cultivation facility. The measurement shall be a direct line between the closest point of the licensed premises and the boundary of the closest parcel incorporated in the Town of Bayfield.
Proposed medical and retail marijuana cultivation facilities shall not be located within the “future growth boundary” of the town of Bayfield, as such boundary exists at the time of application for a license. For purposes of this provision, the future growth boundary of the town of Bayfield shall be set forth on the future growth boundary map approved by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Bayfield from time to time and kept on file with La Plata County’s geographic information systems (“GIS”) department.
6.
Currently licensed as a retail food establishment.
7.
In violation of the land use code.
8.
In violation of the fire code.
9.
In violation of the building code.
10.
In violation of any relevant rules and regulations adopted by
LPCPH
.
11.
In violation of any health standards adopted by either the state or local licensing authorities.
12.
In violation of the
CSEB
rules and regulations.
13.
In violation of any relevant federal, state or local statutes, rules and regulations regarding wastewater disposal or wastewater treatments systems.
14.
Located on a parcel that is delinquent on the payment of county property taxes.
Local licensing authority
staff will verify that property taxes are current as of the date an application is accepted and deemed complete and the date a license is to be issued and become effective.
B.
Place of business for business operators.
A business operator will not have its own licensed premises, but it shall maintain its own place of business. Such places of business shall not be in violation of any of the provisions of subsection (A)(4) through (A)(14).
II.
Marijuana store restrictions
.
A.
Marijuana stores may be open to the public only between the hours of 8:00 am and 8:00 pm. No sale or other distribution of marijuana or marijuana products to patients or customers, as applicable, shall occur, and marijuana stores shall be closed to the public, outside of these hours.
B.
All sales and distribution of marijuana and marijuana products by marijuana stores to patients or customers, as applicable, shall occur in person and only upon the licensed premises. No sales shall be made by automated machine; automated machines (i.e. vending machines) are prohibited in licensed marijuana stores. Further, the licensee along with any employee, agent or associate of the licensee is strictly prohibited from delivering any marijuana or marijuana product to any person at any other location. No sales shall be made by telephone, internet or other means of remote purchase.
C.
All displays, storage and sales of marijuana and marijuana products shall not be visible from the exterior of the business.
D.
The consumption of any alcoholic beverage, marijuana or marijuana product is strictly prohibited on the licensed premises at any time.
E.
If a medical marijuana store that allows medical marijuana patients under the age of  twenty-one (21) years to be on the premises is dually located with a retail marijuana store, the medical marijuana store and the retail marijuana store must maintain complete and distinct physical separation of the licensed premises, including, but not limited to: separate sales and storage areas, separate entrances and exits, separate inventories, separate point-of-sale operations, and separate record-keeping. For other dually located businesses, the licensee shall maintain visual and operational separation of the two (2) licensed operations.
F.
A marijuana store is authorized to utilize a licensed marijuana transporter for transportation of its marijuana and marijuana products only so long as the place where transportation orders are taken and delivered is a licensed marijuana business. Nothing in this rule prevents a marijuana store from transporting its own marijuana and marijuana products.
G.
A marijuana store shall not contract with more than one marijuana business operator to provide services to the marijuana store at any given time. Any business operator and each of its controlling beneficial owners, agents and employees, shall be agents of the marijuana store when engaged in activities related, directly or indirectly, to operations of the marijuana store, including any activity that subjects the marijuana store to an enforcement action.
H.
All marijuana stores shall post a warning, at all times, in a prominent place that has a minimum height of three (3) inches and a width of six (6) inches stating:
Warning
: Using marijuana, in any form, while you are pregnant or breastfeeding passes THC to your baby and may be harmful to your baby. There is no known safe amount of marijuana use during pregnancy or breastfeeding.
I.
All retail marijuana stores shall post a sign in a conspicuous location station:
1.
IT IS ILLEGAL TO SELL OR TRANSFER MARIJUANA OR MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS TO ANYONE UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
2.
IT IS ILLEGAL TO SEND OR TRANSPORT MARIJUANA OR MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS OUTSIDE OF COLORADO.
3.
THE POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA IS STILL A CRIME UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
III.
Marijuana cultivation facility restrictions
A.
Except as permitted by applicable marijuana rules, a marijuana cultivation facility shall only have one (1) license.
B.
For every multiple of three (3) medical marijuana cultivation facilities in which a person is a controlling beneficial owner, the person must also be a controlling beneficial owner in at least one (1) medical marijuana store. Likewise, for every multiple of three (3) retail marijuana cultivation facilities in which a person is a controlling beneficial owner, the person must also be a controlling beneficial owner in at least one (1) retail marijuana store.
C.
If a medical marijuana cultivation facility is dually located with a retail marijuana cultivation facility, the licensee shall maintain visual and operational separation of the two (2) licensed operations, including marijuana plants and marijuana inventory.
D.
If a marijuana cultivation facility shares its licensed premises with a licensed research business, a R&D co-location permit must first be obtained from the
MED
and the licensee must comply with all terms and conditions of the co-location permit.
E.
A marijuana cultivation facility is authorized to utilize a licensed marijuana transporter for transportation of its marijuana only so long as the place where transportation orders are taken and delivered is a licensed marijuana business. Nothing in this rule prevents a marijuana cultivation facility from transporting its own marijuana.
F.
A marijuana cultivation facility shall not contract with more than one (1) marijuana business operator to provide services to the marijuana cultivation facility at any given time. Any business operator and each of its controlling beneficial owners, agents and employees, shall be agents of the marijuana cultivation facility when engaged in activities related, directly or indirectly, to operations of the marijuana cultivation facility including any activity that subjects the marijuana cultivation facility to an enforcement action.
IV.
Marijuana products manufacturer restrictions.
A.
If a medical marijuana products manufacturer is dually located with a retail marijuana products manufacturer, the licensee shall maintain visual and operational separation of the two (2) licensed operations, including product inventory. Nothing in this rule prohibits a co-located medical marijuana products manufacturer and a retail marijuana products manufacturer from sharing raw ingredients in bulk, except that medical marijuana and retail marijuana may not be shared under any circumstance.
B.
If a marijuana products manufacturer shares its licensed premises with a licensed research business, a R&D co-location permit must first be obtained from the MED and the licensee must comply with all terms and conditions of the co-location permit.
C.
A marijuana products manufacturer is authorized to utilize a licensed marijuana transporter for transportation of its marijuana products only so long as the place where transportation orders are taken and delivered is a licensed marijuana business. Nothing in this rule prevents a marijuana products manufacturer from transporting its own marijuana products.
D.
A marijuana products manufacturer shall not contract with more than one (1) marijuana business operator to provide services to the marijuana products manufacture at any given time. Any business operator and each of its controlling beneficial owners, agents and employees, shall be agents of the marijuana products manufacturer when engaged in activities related, directly or indirectly, to operations of the marijuana products manufacturer, including any activity that subjects the marijuana products manufacturer to an enforcement action.
V.
Business operator restrictions.
A.
A business operator will not have its own licensed premises, but it shall maintain its own place of business within the unincorporated county. A business operator shall designate and maintain its place of business separate from the licensed premises of a marijuana business it operates.
B.
A business operator license may only be held by a business entity, including but not limited to a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or sole proprietorship.
C.
Possession, storage, use or consumption, cultivation, manufacture, sale, distribution, or testing of marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited at a business operator’s place of business.
D.
Any business operator may engage in dual operation of a retail marijuana business and a medical marijuana business so long as the business operator obtains valid licenses to operate as both a medical business operator and a retail business operator.
E.
A business operator may not provide any operational services to a marijuana research and development facility.
F.
Business operators, as well as their owners with
day-to-day management
authority, may be disciplined for violations committed by owners, agents or employees of the marijuana business acting under the direction and control of the business operator. A business operator may also be disciplined for violations not directly related to any marijuana business it is operating.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, §  06/10/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, §  12/08/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, §  03/07/2017; Ord. No. 2021-02, §  04/13/2021
)
(
Res. No.
2017-08
, §  03/07/2017; Res. No. 2019-18, §  06/25/2019; Res. No.
2020-23
, §  05/26/2020; Res. No. 2021-11, §  04/13/2021; Res. No.
2023-27
, § 7-5, 11/21/2023
)
Effective on: 1/1/2024