Chapter 10 ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Predatory
animal
control
committee, § 2-566 et seq.;
undesirable plant
and
rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Dumping
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612
Division 4.  Impoundment; Disposition
Contents:
Sec. 10-40. Impoundment Authorized
In accordance with the provisions of this Chapter 10,
animal control officers
may, in their discretion, seize and impound
pet animals
, including
livestock
:
I.
At-Large; or
II.
Appearing to be sick or injured, whose
owner
cannot be identified or located; or
III.
Suspected, based on probable cause, to be a
guard dog
not kept in accordance with these regulations; or
IV.
Suspected, based on probable cause, or found to be a
vicious animal
or dangerous
animal
not kept in accordance with these regulations; or
V.
Abandoned, neglected, mistreated or otherwise suffering from
cruelty to animals
; or
VI.
Otherwise being kept in violation of these regulations.
No person shall refuse to immediately deliver up or release any animal to an animal control officer upon lawful demand to seize and impound the
animal.
An animal control officer shall have the right to enter upon private property when necessary to seize an animal described above.  Authorized entry shall not include entry into a domicile, enclosed building or structure, or any enclosure that confines the
dog
on private property without consent of the owner or resident of the property or an order from the court.    If an owner refuses or fails to deliver or release an animal or if an owner cannot be found, and upon presentation of a motion and an affidavit establishing probable cause that the animal is (1) sick or injured, (2) a vicious animal or dangerous animal, or (3) is abandoned, neglected, mistreated or otherwise suffering from cruelty to animals, a court may issue a warrant for search and seizure to preserve evidence or protect the public’s and/or animal’s safety and welfare, pursuant to Crim. P. Rule 41(b), as amended.
Effective on: 1/17/2017