INTRODUCTION TO THE 2020 LA PLATA COUNTY LAND USE CODE
Chapters 62 through 68, 70 through 74 and 79-81 of this code were adopted in 2020 as the culmination of a multi-year process of listening to the needs and preferences of the community. As a result of listening to the public’s input, the Board of County Commissioners identified several goals not only around the inadequacies of the previous LPLUC, but also goals and strategies discussed in the various district plans and desired improvement to both process and standards of the code. One goal was to reconcile and clarify previous inadequacies of the code, which was largely accomplished through more thorough definitions and increased use of flow charts and tables and improved organization. Another key goal was to improve the process by which applications for development are initiated, reviewed, and approved. The process goals included improving and streamlining the steps in the process as well as increasing predictability and certainty about the likely process and outcome of applying the code. The substantive goals motivating the drafting of the new code were many: facilitate and direct the growth of the county to appropriate areas, such as those supported by adequate services and infrastructure, and cluster development when appropriate; articulate clearer development standards; protect and respect the county’s most valued assets, such as its natural beauty and landscape, rural lands and viability of agricultural production; and mitigate the
adverse impacts
of new development on existing residents. In sum, the board and the community wanted a better process with clearer standards that would create predictability and facilitate growth in the appropriate areas of the county while respecting the needs and preferences of those who already call La Plata County home.
Chapter 90 was repealed and reenacted in 2023.
Background
Chapters 62 through 81 and chapter 90 of the La Plata County Code are referred to as the La Plata County Land Use Code (LUC).  These chapters contain the county’s land use, zoning, floodplain, and subdivision regulations as well as road and bridge design standards.  The LUC is the primary tool used to implement the La Plata County Comprehensive Plan and its associated district plans.
In 1990, the La Plata County Board of Commissioners adopted the
La Plata County Land Use Plan
which, as amended, formed the basis of the La Plata County Land Use Code (LPLUC) which was used until this code was enacted. This code repeals and rewrites significant portions of LPLUC but maintains a performance-based zoning system as described below.
Whenever new land use regulations are adopted, questions arise as to their applicability and how properties or uses transition from the old to the new system or new regulations. All uses or structures that were legally established prior to the effective date of this code but perhaps no longer comply with these updated provisions are considered pre-existing nonconforming uses because they no longer conform to the county’s current regulations.  Such
nonconformity
is expected, common and acceptable. In general, there is no need for the owners of these properties to obtain a new land use permit unless the owner wishes to change or extend the nature of the use or start a new use.  Similarly, this new code and its provisions do not generally apply to projects that are “in process” if the application is deemed complete as of the adoption date of this code.   For projects that were approved under the old code but are not yet complete, those projects typically have a three (3) year period to complete the project under the prior code and the terms and conditions of the issued permit.
Private Property Rights
The need to appropriately balance individual property rights with the larger public purposes to be served is inherent in all land use regulations. This code recognizes that Section 3, Article II of the Colorado Bill of Rights, provides that all persons have certain natural, essential and inalienable rights, among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberties; of acquiring, possessing and protecting property; and of seeking and obtaining their safety and happiness. One of the essential elements of property is the right to its unrestricted use and enjoyment and that use cannot be interfered with beyond what is necessary to provide for the welfare and general security of the public morals, health, safety or welfare.[1] Within this context, Colorado counties have the authority to adopt and enforce ordinances and resolutions regarding health, safety and welfare issues as prescribed by law,[2] including, but not limited to, the ability[3] to regulate uses of land for trade, industry, recreation[4] and the authority to plan for and regulate the use of land resulting in changes in population density based on the impact of development on surrounding areas and the community.[5] Such regulations are valid unless it is clear there is no foundation in reason and there is no substantial relation to the public health, the public morals, the public safety or the public welfare.[6]
Summary of this Code:
The LUC is organized to facilitate the user’s understanding of the process and requirements for land use and other types of permit applications. The following overview highlights certain aspects of each chapter: The user should refer to the chapter and relevant sections for a more complete explanation and additional requirements.
Chapter 62
:  Chapter 62 establishes the effective date of chapters 62 through 68, 70-74 and 79-81 as October 1, 2020 and, among other things, contains useful definitions and acronyms.  However, some chapters such as chapter 69 relating to areas and activities of state interest, chapter 78 relating to floodplains, and chapter 90 oil and gas have their own effective dates and unique set of definitions to which the user of those chapters should refer.  This code defines many terms and phrases not previously defined and places all defined terms in a single chapter/location rather than scattered throughout standards and regulations. Obsolete terms and definitions have also been updated or deleted.
Chapter 63
:  Chapter 63 describes the roles and duties of the La Plata County Board of Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, the La Plata County
Planning Commission
, the Joint Planning Commission and county staff in the administration of the code.  It also creates
registered district advisory committees
that afford organized citizens group the opportunity to participate in the district plan amendment process and to comment on various types of land use permit applications.
Chapter 64
: Chapter 64 explains the long-range planning tools utilized by La Plata County and required by Colorado law.  The La Plata County Comprehensive Plan is the primary instrument that informs these regulations.  This chapter discusses the manner in which the comprehensive plan is updated, its use and the role of the district plans as appendices to the comprehensive plan.  Finally, chapter 64 acknowledges the importance and need for intergovernmental cooperation with municipalities within the county as required by law.
Chapter 65
: Chapter 65 provides a framework for application of traditional or
Euclidean zoning
. Section 65-3 and 65-4 contains development standards specific to development within the Animas Valley Land Use Plan District and its component parts. All new development, including subdivisions, within the mapped district must comply with the district-specific standards in this chapter, in addition to other applicable standards in the remainder of the code.
Chapter 66
:  Land use permits are used to determine compliance with development standards prior to the start of any development, land use activity or land disturbing activity on a site.  Land use permits are required for most new land development and new uses in the county except for those activities described in section 66-3.
Section 66-5 through section 66-7 establish the various types of land use and development permits, which vary depending on the type or intensity of land use proposed for development. The three (3) primary types of land use permits are (1) administrative (applications delegated to staff for final approval); (2) minor (applications reviewed by staff with final review and action by the planning commission); and (3) major (applications reviewed by staff and the planning commission with final review and action by the board of county commissioners). Section 66-1 gives the community development director the authority, subject to guiding criteria, to determine what type of permit and level of review applies to a use not listed or where classification may be unclear.
One category of uses not requiring a land use permit or requiring only an
administrative land use permit
are referred to as “AgPlus”. Subsection 66-3.II. and subsection 66-5.II. address a unique set of uses by right and types of administrative land use permits that are a companion to agriculture. Historically, agriculture has been the predominant land use in the unincorporated areas of La Plata County. Agriculture has defined the area’s character and agricultural enterprises and activities are an important sector of the county’s economy. While rural living is a life-style choice for many residents, some generate a considerable portion, if not all their livelihood from agriculture. An important component of agriculture is the production of commodities produced and sold on the farm or sold from the farm to be processed elsewhere. Key policy goals of the comprehensive plan, several district plans and this code are to encourage, promote and foster agricultural enterprises and activities in the county. It is for these reasons and others that uses referred to as
AgPlus
are addressed in chapter 66. In this context “plus” is a qualitative rather than a quantitative measure, the objective being the preservation of agricultural lands by focusing on the use to which a parcel may be put plus any “value added” activities that support the agricultural use or the ability of the property owner to sustain the land for agricultural purposes.
Common procedures for submission and handling of land use applications are set forth in section 66-9. The common review procedures provide a road map to the application process by outlining how to process most land use applications in the county. The procedures of general applicability are:
Step 1:        Pre-application process
Step 2:        Submission and review of the application by the
community development department
Step 3:        Referral to other agencies for review and comment
Step 4:        Neighborhood meetings, if required
Step 5:        Meetings and final decision on the application
Step 6:        Actions following the decision made by the decision-making body
Section 66-16 states the general criteria a project must satisfy for approval.
Section 66-19 related to sketch plans provides an opportunity for the county, the applicant and the public to evaluate and discuss the basic design, concept and suitability of a project before the applicant expends resources on the application process. The sketch plan process is optional for a minor land use application and mandatory for major land use applications. The sketch plan is reviewed for general consistency with the approval criteria set forth in section 66-16 but not for detailed compliance with other development standards.
Chapter 66 also contains a process for designation of an economic development area. This section establishes a process by which the county or any person or collection of persons may designate an area as being subject to specialized land use regulations to promote commercial, industrial, or mixed residential/commercial development.
Chapter 67
: This chapter on subdivisions addresses major and minor subdivisions and condominiums and townhome developments. Most development standards applicable to subdivisions are set forth in chapters 70, 72 and 74 but section 67-15 contains additional design standards that are exclusively applicable to subdivision layout and design.
Chapter 67 also describes situations involving the division of land that are exempt in La Plata County from the definition of the term “subdivision” found in Colorado statutes. However, while exempt from the requirement of meeting certain standards, these types of projects must still follow specified procedures.
Sections 67-6 and section 67-7 are two (2) examples of exempt subdivisions. Sections 67-6 pertains to agricultural exemption subdivisions and allows agricultural lots meeting the criteria set forth in the section to create two (2) new lots from an original agricultural lot. Section 67-7 on clustered rural development provides landowners the option to consider cluster development when subdividing land into parcels and is an alternative to the traditional thirty-five (35) acre subdivision process. The process provides a means of preserving common open space and reducing the extension of roads and utilities to serve the residential development. La Plata County’s regulations authorize the use of clustering and a density bonuses not to exceed two (2) units for each thirty-five (35) acre increment to fulfill the goals of the community to preserve open space, protect wildlife habitat and critical areas and enhance and maintain the rural character of lands with contiguity to agricultural lands suitable for long-range farming and ranching operations.
Chapter 68
: Chapter 68 relates to
planned unit developments
(PUD) as a mechanism to address development comprised of a mix of uses that may be phased over a period of time. This chapter establishes the criteria whereby one or more property owners may request use of the PUD process for a project and the county may make a case-by-case determination of the project’s eligibility to apply for a PUD. A PUD may be established to provide greater flexibility in land development and use by allowing the development to be based upon a comprehensive, integrated, detailed plan rather than specific constraints applicable to lot-by-lot development. Flexibility as to standards is typically afforded in exchange for community benefits or amenities. The PUD also involves a more detailed site plan review than would a standard subdivision. The outcome is a detailed master plan for development of the property that can be built in phases, in response to market demands.
Chapter 69
: C.R.S. § 24-65.1-101 et seq., commonly referred to 1041 regulations (named for House Bill 1041 that created them), establish a regulatory system that allows local governments to retain and increase control over certain types of development projects, even when the project is one that might typically be under the jurisdiction of the State of Colorado. These land powers are in addition to the broad planning and development review powers granted to counties under other Colorado statutes. Under HB1041, counties may adopt guidelines and regulations to govern (1) development activity in specified “areas of state interest”, such as geologic hazards or wildfire hazards; and (2) “activities of state interest” such as the siting and construction of major public utility facilities and highways. These areas and activities tend to be those where the potential impacts may be widespread and may cross jurisdictional lines. On October 1, 2019, the La Plata County Board of Commissioners designated seven (7) activities of state interest and chapter 69 sets forth the guidelines and standards consistent with the minimum guidelines stated in Colorado statutes. Any party engaging in the designated activities must first apply for and receive a 1041 permit from the county. Applications that do not demonstrate compliance with all the adopted standards must be denied by the county, according to state statute.
Chapters 70, 72 and 73
: To approve a land use permit, the decision-making body must make findings that the project meets certain approval criteria. To ensure these criteria are met, chapters 70 and chapters 72-73 establish standards which describe the level of quality or quantity that must be complied with or satisfied. Chapter 70 consolidates the standards that are generally applicable to all land use permits, unless otherwise excepted. Chapter 70 is then supplemented by standards in chapter 72 (supplemental overlay standards) and chapter 73 (standards for specific uses) that may also be applicable depending upon the location or nature of the development.
Because La Plata County has performance-based zoning in areas other than the Animas Valley, unlike most land use codes this code does not prescribe zoning districts and does not contain a list of uses that are deemed appropriate for a particular zone district. Instead, this code establishes approval criteria and standards for determining appropriate uses and site design requirements. These standards and criteria ensure each land use is compatible with neighboring land uses and the environment. If a proposed land use will create adverse impacts on neighboring lands or the environment, the project may still be approved if the applicant can appropriately mitigate the project’s adverse impacts. Section 70-5 describes how staff and decision-making bodies will assess a project’s compatibility and Table 70-5 describes approaches frequently required for mitigation of adverse impacts. In some instances, applicants may also propose acceptable, equivalent alternatives to mitigate a project’s impacts.
Chapter 74
:  The requirements contained in chapter 74 relating to streets, roadways and right-of-way requirements ensure uniform, safe and adequate access to public roads and that development and use of
real property
does not create a demand for public improvements and services that cannot be met with existing public resources. Except in those instances enumerated in section 74-1, these standards apply to transportation facilities planned, designed and constructed by private parties that provide access from public rights-of-way to property proposed for private development, whether through the subdivision process or otherwise and new transportation facilities planned, designed and constructed by the county.
Chapter 78
: Chapter 78 contains the county’s floodplain management regulations, including procedures, definitions and substantive standards for flood control and management.  Because these types of regulations are based on a national model and need to be submitted to state and other entities for compliance, this chapter remains unchanged from the floodplain regulations adopted in 2014.
Chapter 79
: As described above, within the county there are existing uses of real property, structures and lots that were legally established under prior versions of La Plata County’s land use code. Chapter 79 allows for the continuation of these nonconformities when no changes occur or are proposed but establishes rules for certain types of changes that may require a new permit. Changes of ownership, tenancy or management of an existing lawfully established use generally do not affect the ability for the lawful land use to continue and section 79-3 describes additional exemptions from the requirement of a land use permit.
La Plata County has been significantly impacted by wildfire and has learned first-hand that the imposition of current regulations on victims of wildfires and other disasters can create additional distress and hardship for impacted residents and businesses. Section 79-6 establishes a disaster re-build program that applies to both conforming and nonconforming uses and structures damaged by the disaster and provides the impacted owner relief from a variety of otherwise applicable requirements.
Chapter 80
: Chapter 80 provides a basic set of enforcement and penalty provisions for violation of the code. Section 80-3 specifies exactly what constitutes a code violation and this section is supplemented by explicit reference and descriptions of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement mechanisms available for enforcement.
Chapter 81
: Among other things, chapter 81 references enabling legislation that authorized the county to enact these regulations and addresses the effects of the new regulations on existing approvals and projects currently in the review process. The chapter also makes clear that the burden of proving satisfaction of approval criteria and standards is on the applicant. Finally, chapter 81 incorporates other maps and documents relied upon in the review process and the rules for interpreting this code.
Chapter 90
: Chapter 90 contains the county's oil and gas resource development standards and associated regulations. In 2019, the Colorado legislature adopted SB 19-181 which substantially changed the mission of the
ECMC
from fostering the development of oil and gas resources to regulating the development and production of oil and gas in a manner that protects public health, safety and welfare, including protection of the environment and wildlife resources. SB 19-181 also clarified the ability of local governments to regulate oil and gas development including the possibility of concurrent and overlapping jurisdiction. After the adoption of SB 19-181, the ECMC updated and revised the entirety of its rules. These changes at the state level prompted the need to repeal and reenact chapter 90 of the county's land use code.
[1] City & County of Denver v. Denver Buick, Inc., 141 Colo. 121, 347 P.2d 919 (1959)
[2] C.R.S. § 30-11-101(2)
[3] C.R.S. §§ 29-20-101 et seq. and 30-28-101 et seq.
[4] Bd of Cty Comm’rs v. Thompson, 177 Colo. 277, 284, 493 P.2d 1358 (1972).
[5] Wilkinson v. Bd County Comm’rs, 872 P.2d 1269 (Colo. App. 1993)
[6] Nectow v. City of Cambridge, 277 U.S. 183, 48 S. Ct. 447 (1928)
(
Res. No.
2023-11
, §  04/26/2023
)
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Printed in this subpart B is the La Plata County Land Use System which was adopted by and through Resolution Numbers 1990-39, 1990-40, 1988-53, 1989-5, and has been amended by and through Resolution Numbers 1992-28, 1993-44, 1993-25, 1993-53, 1993-54, 1993-55, 1994-1, 1994-19, 1994-23, 1994-29, 1994-38, 1994-39, 1994-49, 1994-50, 1994-51, 1994-55, 1994-58, 1994-59, 1995-1, 1995-15, 1995-18, 1995-19, 1995-21, 1995-22, 1995-23, 1995-29, 1995-30, 1995-31, 1995-32, 1995-35, 1995-42, 1996-19, 1996-20, 1996-21, 1996-36, 1996-37, 1997-5 and 1997-26. The La Plata County Land Use System (LPLUS) was formerly entitled, "The La Plata County Permit System and Appendices," prior to Resolution No. 1994-1, which combined and renumbered it into the La Plata County Land Use System printed herein.
State Law reference—
Planning and land use regulations, power of county, C.R.S. § 29-20-104; authority to provide for historic, cultural or architectural preservation and provide for an advisory board, C.R.S. § 30-11-107; vested property rights, C.R.S. § 24-68-101 et seq.; Planned Unit Development Act, C.R.S. § 24-67-101 et seq.; zoning plan, C.R.S. § 30-28-111.
Effective on: 8/1/2023