Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE V. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Weight and size limits, C.R.S. §§ 42-4-104, 42-4-106, 42-4-111, 42-4-501—42-4-512.
DIVISION 4. HEIGHT, WEIGHT AND LENGTH LIMITS
Sec. 42-353. Height and length of vehicles.
No
vehicle
unladen or with load
shall
exceed a height of 13 feet; except that vehicles with a height of 14 feet, six inches, shall be operated only on
roadways
designated by the
department
.
No single motor vehicle shall exceed a length of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers. The length of vehicles used for the mass transportation of passengers wholly within the limits of a town, city or municipality, or within a radius of 15 miles thereof
may
extend to 60 feet. The length of school buses may also extend to 40 feet.
Buses used for the transportation of passengers between towns, cities and municipalities in the state may be 60 feet extreme overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers but shall not exceed a height of 13 feet, six inches, if such buses are equipped to conform with the load and weight limitations set forth in section 42-356; except that buses with a height of 14 feet, six inches, which otherwise conform to the requirements of this subsection (III) shall be operated only on roadways designated by the department.
No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than four
units
, and no such combination of vehicles shall exceed a total overall length of 70 feet. Such length limitation shall not apply to truck tractor-semitrailer combinations when the semitrailer is 57 feet, four inches or less in length, or to truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations when both the semitrailer and the trailer are 28 feet, six inches or less in length. Such length limitations shall also not apply to vehicles operated by a public
utility
when required for
emergency
repair of public service
facilities
or properties or when operated under
special permit
as provided in section 42-271, but, in respect to night transportation, every such vehicle and the load thereon shall be equipped with a sufficient number of clearance lamps on both sides and marker lamps upon the extreme ends of any projecting load to clearly mark the dimensions of such load. Such length limitations shall also not apply to specialized
equipment
used in combination for transporting automobiles or boats when such specialized equipment is stinger-steered, as defined in C.R.S. § 42-1-102(99), and the combination does not exceed 75 feet in length, exclusive of safety devices, which safety devices shall not be designed or used for carrying cargo. The limitations provided in this section shall be strictly construed and enforced. Extensions of not more than 18 inches in length on each end of a vehicle or combination of vehicles used to transport manufactured vehicles shall not be included in measuring the length of such vehicle or combination of vehicles when loaded.
The load upon any vehicle operated alone or the load upon the front vehicle of a combination of vehicles shall not extend beyond the front wheels of such vehicles or vehicle or the front most point of the grill of such vehicle; but a load may
project
not more than four feet beyond the front most point of the grill assembly of the vehicle engine compartment of such a vehicle at a point above the cab of the driver's compartment so long as that part of any load projecting ahead of the rear of the cab or driver's compartment shall be so loaded as not to obscure the vision of the driver to the front or to either side, except for the provisions of subsection (IV) of this section.
The length limitations of vehicles and combinations of vehicles provided for in this section, as they apply to vehicles being operated and utilized for the transportation of steel, fabricated beams, trusses, utility poles, pipes and automobiles, shall be determined without regard to the projection of such commodities beyond the extreme front or rear of the vehicle or combination of vehicles; except that the projection of a load to the front shall be governed by the provisions of subsection (V) of this section, and no load shall project to the rear more than ten feet.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3(2-3), 9-8-1997)
State Law reference—
Similar provisions, C.R.S. § 42-4-504.
Effective on: 9/8/1997