Chapter 6 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Fermented malt beverages, C.R.S. § 12-46-101 et seq.; Colorado liquor
code
, C.R.S. § 12-47-101 et seq.
Sec. 6-6 License fines, suspension, fines in lieu of suspension and revocation
I.
Cause for fines, suspensions, fines in lieu of suspensions, or revocations.
Any violation of the Colorado Liquor Code, Colorado Beer Code, any applicable statute, code, rule, order, ordinance, resolution, regulation, or condition(s) or provision(s) of the license, and also including any statute, code, rule, order, ordinance, resolution, or regulation that affects public health or safety, is cause for the fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation of a license.
II.
Authority power
. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-3-601, as may be amended, the local licensing authority may fine, suspend, impose a fine in lieu of suspension, or revoke any license issued by the local licensing authority for any violation by the licensee, or by any of the agents, servers or employees of such licensee.
III.
Process for fines, suspensions, fines in lieu of suspension, or revocation.
Proceedings to fine, suspend, fine in lieu of suspension, or revoke a license shall be initiated as follows:
A.
Whenever a written complaint is filed with the local licensing authority, alleging a cause for imposition of a fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation against a licensee; or
B.
By motion of the local licensing authority, when information has been received from the Durango Police Department, the county sheriff’s department or the State Department of Revenue which, if substantiated, could be grounds for a fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation of the license. In determining whether such proceedings shall be initiated by such motion, the local licensing authority shall consider the number of alleged violations concerning the licensee and the severity of the violations alleged. If information is received by the local licensing authority, which if substantiated, could be grounds for a fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation of the license but the local licensing authority determines not to initiate formal fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension or revocation proceedings, notification regarding the violation shall be mailed by first class mail to the licensee. The notification shall be in the form of a letter and shall contain the exhibits or information as the local licensing authority deems appropriate.
IV.
Investigation
. Premises for which a permit is required under this Section shall be subject to inspection by law enforcement or the licensing coordinator to verify compliance with this liquor code. It shall be the duty of the applicant or licensee to provide access to the premises. If fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation proceedings are initiated, the local licensing authority shall determine the probable truth of the charges against the licensee by investigation. The sheriff’s office is hereby authorized to conduct such investigation on behalf of the local licensing authority.
V.
Notice
. If it appears upon such investigation or otherwise comes to the attention of the local licensing authority that there is probable cause to believe that grounds for fines, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation exist, the county attorney’s office shall issue a notice of hearing and order to show cause why the license should not be fined, suspended, fined in lieu of suspension, or revoked. Such notice and order shall be sent by mail to the licensee at the address contained in the license and shall contain such information as will reasonably notify or inform the licensee of the charges or alleged grounds for a fine, suspension, fine in lieu of suspension, or revocation.
VI.
Hearing
. The hearing shall be held at the place and time designated in the notice or upon such other day as may be set for good cause shown. At the hearing, evidence in support of the charges shall be given first followed by cross examination of those testifying thereto. The licensee, in person or by counsel, shall then be permitted to give evidence in defense and in explanation, and shall be allowed to give evidence and statement in mitigation of the charges. If the licensee is found to have committed the violation charged, or any other violation, evidence and statements in aggravation of the offense shall also be permitted.
VII.
Oaths and subpoenas
. At such hearing, the local licensing authority has the power to administer oaths. The local licensing authority has the power to issue subpoenas to require the presence of persons and the production of all papers, books and records necessary to its determination.
VIII.
Evidence
. If the evidence presented at the hearing does not support the charges stated in the notice and order served upon the licensee but standing alone establishes the guilt of the licensee of a violation of some other law, rule, or regulation, the licensee shall be permitted to give evidence and statements in defense, explanation and mitigation if then prepared to do so. If such evidence is not then available but can be obtained by the licensee, the licensee shall state the substance thereof and upon request, the hearing may be recessed for not more than ten (10) days and shall continue under the same procedure as though no recess has occurred.
IX.
Conclusion
. If the licensee is found not to have violated the Colorado Liquor Code, Colorado Beer Code, any applicable statute, code, rule, order, ordinance, resolution, regulation, or condition(s) or provision(s) of the license, the charges against the licensee will be dismissed. If the licensee is found to have violated the Colorado Liquor Code, Colorado Beer Code, any applicable statute, county code, rule, order, ordinance, resolution, regulation, or condition(s) or provision(s) of the license, the license may be fined, suspended, fined in lieu of suspension, or revoked.
X.
Written decision
. The local licensing authority shall furnish the licensee its decision in writing within thirty (30) days following the hearing. Such decision shall be mailed to the licensee at the address contained in the license.
XI.
Duration
. No suspension of a license shall be for a period longer than six months.
XII.
Fine in lieu of a suspension
. The local licensing authority may only impose a fine in lieu of suspension upon a specific finding that the conduct that constituted a substantial violation of the liquor code or regulations did not impair the public welfare and morals of the community. Any fine imposed shall be pursuant to those authorized in C.R.S. § 44-3-601 and 1 CO ADC 203-2:47-603, as may be amended.
XIII.
Temporary suspension
. Where the local licensing authority has reasonable grounds to believe and finds that a licensee has been guilty of a deliberate and willful violation of any applicable law or regulation or that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action and incorporates such findings in an order, the local licensing authority may temporarily or summarily suspend the license pending proceedings for a suspension or revocation hearing, which shall be promptly instituted and determined. A temporary suspension of a license without notice pending any prosecution, investigation or public hearing shall be for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
(
Res. No. 2021-08, § 6-6, 03/09/2021
)
Effective on: 3/9/2021