Chapter 46 SOLID WASTE
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Solid waste advisory committee, § 2-591 et seq.;
buildings
and building regulations, ch.
18.
State Law reference—
Abatement of nuisances, C.R.S. § 16-13-301 et seq.;
dumping
rubbish
, etc., C.R.S. § 18-4-511; solid waste recycling, C.R.S. § 25-17-101 et seq.; regulations regarding nuisances, C.R.S. §§ 25-1-611—25-1-622; general regulations by ordinance, C.R.S. § 30-15-401; Colorado
noxious weed
act, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101 et seq.; nuisance
weed
abatement, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-113.
ARTICLE II. COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Littering of
public or private property
, C.R.S. § 18-4-511; authority to prohibit and abate nuisances, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(a)(I); solid waste disposal
sites
and
facilities
, C.R.S. § 30-20-100.5 et seq
DIVISION 2. REGULATIONS
Contents:
Sec. 46-56. Disposal of rubbish.
Sec. 46-57. Unsecured trash, rubbish or refuse containers.
Secs. 46-58—46-70. Reserved.
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Disposition of
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612.
Sec. 46-56. Disposal of rubbish.
The
owner
or occupant of each
residential
,
agricultural
, commercial, institutional and industrial property within the unincorporated areas of the
county
shall
be responsible for securing an approved method of collection for
rubbish
or
dead animals
generated on their
premises
. Approved methods shall be limited to:
Arrangements for transport by a commercial
hauler
;
Transport and proper disposal of a
person
's own rubbish to a
designated facility
; or
Transport and proper disposal of dead animals to a designated facility, or proper disposal as defined in C.R.S. § 25-1-612.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, cause or
permit
the
dumping
of rubbish or dead animals upon any private or public lands within the unincorporated area of the county, except in accordance with the provisions of this article.
No owner or occupant of a residential or commercial establishment shall permit the accumulation of rubbish or dead animals upon any premises for a period in excess of 30 days.
(Ord. No. 1997-2, § 2, 9-8-1997)
State Law reference—
Public nuisances prohibited, C.R.S. § 16-13-301 et seq.; class 3 public nuisance, C.R.S. § 16-13-305; prohibition and removal of certain nuisances, C.R.S. § 25-1-611 et seq.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Sec. 46-57. Unsecured trash, rubbish or refuse containers.
Basis/purpose. Bears, mountain lions, skunks, raccoons, magpies, crows, foxes, and coyotes are a few of the
wildlife
species living in close proximity to people in the
county
. Over the past several years human-wildlife conflict incidents dealing with these species have dramatically increased. Unsecured and unattended trash containers that are left in the open for extended periods of time are a strong attractant for wildlife and a primary cause of conflicts between wildlife and people.
Intent. The
board
of county
commissioners
finds and declares that the purpose of this section is to protect the public health and welfare by either requiring the
use
of secured and wildlife-proof trash containers or restricting the times and dates in which residents or other property
owners
or users
may
leave unattended and unsecured trash,
rubbish
and refuse containers in the open and along rights-of-way within the unincorporated territory of the county and county-controlled lands.
Definitions. The following words and phrases, whenever used in this section,
shall
be construed as defined in this section:
Person
means any individual, resident or occupier of a premises or, in the circumstance where a group of individuals, residents or occupiers appoints or has appointed for them a firm, corporation, or organization to bear the responsibility for collecting or accumulating for that group all trash, refuse and rubbish for pick-up by a commercial waste hauler for delivery to an authorized depository or landfill, that firm, corporation, or organization. However, person shall not include any commercial waste haulers.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Premises
means any property located within the unincorporated territory of the county that is owned, occupied, leased or expressly permitted to be used as a residence or business and over which the county has jurisdiction.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Wildlife
means any undomesticated or unrestrained animal, including but not limited to elk, deer, sheep, lynx, bears, skunks, squirrels, raccoons, magpies, crows, coyotes, bobcats, foxes, mountain lions and any unrestrained livestock or household pets.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Wildlife disturbance
means an incident in which some animal or species defined herein as being wildlife upsets, knocks over, enters or otherwise disturbs a trash, rubbish or refuse container such that any trash, refuse or rubbish contained in the container is removed or falls out of the container and becomes scattered or spread across the area in the immediate vicinity of the container, thereby threatening the public's health, safety and welfare.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Wildlife-proof dumpster enclosure (WPDE)
means a fully enclosed structure consisting of either four sides and a roof or cover or four sides of sufficient height, design and construction to prevent access by wildlife. WPDEs must also meet the standards of testing by the Living with Wildlife Foundation. The door or cover must have a latching mechanism sufficient to prevent entry by wildlife. The sides of the structure must extend to within two inches of the ground, and ventilation openings must be covered with a heavy gauge steel mesh or other material of sufficient strength to prevent access by wildlife. Mesh openings shall not exceed one-quarter-inch in width. The door or cover to the WPDE may be removed from December 1 through March 1.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Wildlife-proof refuse container (WPRC)
means a fully enclosed container constructed of non-pliable material (e.g. metal) to prevent access by wildlife and meeting the standards as set forth in the site development standards of the county land use regulations, as may be amended from time to time. WPRCs must also meet the standards of testing by the Living with Wildlife Foundation and approved by the Interagency Grizzly Bear Committee (IGBC) as bear resistant for 90 minutes. A dumpster or similar trash receptacle of heavy construction may be a WPRC. The container must employ a latching mechanism on the access door sufficient to defeat attempts by wildlife to enter. All WPRCs must be individually identifiable by serial number.
Effective on: 9/8/1997
Wildlife resistant refuse container (WRRC)
means a fully enclosed container that can be constructed of pliable materials, but must be reinforced to deter access by wildlife and meet the standards as set forth in the site development standards of the county land use regulations, as may be amended from time to time. The container must employ a sturdy pliable lid that has a latching mechanism preventing access to its contents by wildlife. WPPCs must also meet the standards of testing by the Living with Wildlife Foundation and approved by the Interagency Grizzly Bear Committee (IGBC) as bear resistant for 90 minutes. All WRRCs must be individually identifiable by serial number.
IV.
Trash, rubbish and refuse containers.
A.
Trash containers to be secured. Any trash, rubbish or refuse containers that are utilized by any person on any premises in the county, regardless of size, including containers for single-unit residential properties or special events, and which contains any refuse that is edible to or attracts wildlife shall at all times, except when it is being placed out for pick-up by a commercial waste hauler in accordance subsection (B) or being directly attended to by an individual, either be:
1.
A WPRC or a WRRC and shall be effectively locked or latched so as to prevent access by wildlife, or
2.
Be stored either within a WPDE or an otherwise secure structure that prevents access to that container by wildlife.
B.
Curb pick-up and drop-off. Persons with curbside pick-up by a commercial waste hauler that are not using either a WPRC or WRRC shall only be permitted to place any trash, rubbish or refuse containers containing any refuse that is edible to or attracts wildlife at the curb, alley, or right-of-way at or after 5:30 a.m. on the morning of scheduled pick-up. After pick-up, all containers must be removed from the curb, alley, or right of way by 9:00 p.m. on the same day.
V.
Acceptable outdoor compactor design. Any outdoor compactor containing any material edible by bears or other wildlife must not be accessible by wildlife. No trash or material may be exposed and doors must be kept closed and latched with a wildlife proof mechanism except when loading or removing refuse. If damaged, allowing access by wildlife, repairs must be made to the outdoor compactor within 72 hours after written notification by the county.
VI.
Exceptions. The following entities or actions are exempt from the requirements of this section:
A.
The lawful operation of a landfill, transfer station, recycling center or composting facility and related activities by the county or any other governmental entity or any other authorized, licensed or otherwise permitted entity.
B.
The board of county commissioners or its designee may, in consultation with the Colorado Division of Wildlife, remove a geographic area of the county (e.g. a subdivision) from any part of the above requirements.
C.
Any individual, company, or corporation that is engaged in lawful agricultural or ranching pursuits (i.e., haystack or cattle feeder located in a rancher's pasture).
D.
Special events of a duration of less than one day, provided that the organizers or operators of the event provide for the removal of all unsecured refuse or trash containers within 24 hours of the completion of such event.
E.
Any entity operating on federally or state owned lands located within the unincorporated territory of the county.
VII.
Violation and penalties.
A.
Violation. A violation of this section has occurred when a person fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (IV) and that failure to comply creates a wildlife disturbance. Any party authorized to enforce this section pursuant to subsection (VIII) shall investigate any report of an apparent wildlife disturbance and if he or she determines that a person's failure to comply with the terms and restrictions set forth in subsection (IV) have caused that wildlife disturbance, he or she may issue a summons and complaint to that person. A summons and complaint issued by an enforcement officer shall contain the name of the defendant, shall identify the offense charged, including a citation of the statute or resolution section alleged to have been violated, shall contain a brief statement or description of the offense charged, including the date and approximate location thereof, and shall direct the defendant to appear before the county court at a stated time and place.
B.
First violation. The first violation of this section may, at the discretion of the enforcement officer, also result in the issuance of a notice of violation and a fine as set forth below. Failure to correct a notice of violation within a reasonable time, not to exceed 72 hours, is grounds for issuance of a summons and complaint for a subsequent violation. In lieu of paying the fine amount for a first violation, a violator may instead elect to either purchase or lease for a period of no less than 12 months a WPRC or WRRC within the time period for payment of the fine and agree to thereafter exclusively use that container for the purpose of storing or containing trash, rubbish or refuse on the premises or for leaving out for curbside pick-up.
C.
Subsequent violation. Offenders who continue to violate this section or continue to fail in achieving timely compliance as set forth in any previous notice of violation shall be subject to a graduated fine schedule as set forth below.
D.
Penalties. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-15-402(1), any person who or entity that violates this section shall be guilty of an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-402, as amended, and punishable as follows:
1.
A fine not exceeding $200.00 for a first notice of violation.
2.
A fine not exceeding $300.00 for the second notice of violation.
3.
A fine not exceeding $500.00 for each additional notice of violation.
VIII.
Enforcement.
A.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, all commissioned peace officers of the county sheriff's department, Colorado Wildlife Officers from the Colorado Division of Wildlife and any other persons or positions designated by resolution of the board of county commissioners as enforcement officers under this section may issues notices of violations, citations, summonses, and complaints for violation of this section. Any violations of this section shall thereafter be prosecuted by the District Attorney for the Sixth Judicial District of Colorado.
B.
Violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-15-401, which may be abated by the county by restraining order, preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law, and the county may take action to recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
IX.
Notice of violation. A person shall be deemed to have been issued a notice of violation if it is personally served upon the resident, posted on the person's premises, or placed in the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid and addressed to the resident according to the last address given by the resident to any county government department.
X.
Liberal construction. This section shall be liberally construed so as to further its purposes.
XI.
Severability. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this section or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this section that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
XII.
Effective date. This section shall be effective April 15, 2009. This section shall apply throughout the unincorporated areas of the county over which the county has jurisdiction all year round.
(Ord. No. O-2008-1, §§ 1—12, 12-18-2008;
Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 46-57 (Exh E), 09/27/2022
)
Editor's note—
Ord. No. O-2008-1, §§ 1—12, adopted December 18, 2008, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, inclusions as section 46-57 is at the discretion of the editor.
Effective on: 9/27/2022
Secs. 46-58—46-70. Reserved.
Effective on: 9/8/1997