Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, AMENDMENTS AND CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
Every
procurement
action results in a legal
contract
between the county and the supplier, regardless of purchase type or amount. This article VI discusses the appropriate contracts and terms to be used.
Sec. 20-66 Debarment or suspension.
I.
Authority to debar or suspend vendor
. The
contract manager
may suspend any
vendor
from consideration for
award
of
contracts
if there is probable cause to believe that the person has engaged in any activity that might lead to debarment. The suspension shall be for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months. Further, after notice by hand-delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to a vendor and reasonable opportunity for that vendor to be heard, the contract manager with the concurrence of the finance director is authorized to debar a person from consideration for award of contracts. The debarment shall be for a period of not more than three (3) years. The causes for suspension or debarment of a vendor or subcontractor include the following acts by the vendor or its subcontractors:
A.
Conviction(s) under state or federal antitrust statutes arising out of the submission of
bids
or
proposals
, or conviction(s) for commission of a criminal offense as an incident to obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract, or in the performance of such contract or subcontract;
B.
Conviction(s) under state or federal statutes for embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property, unlawful price fixing between competitors, any other violation of federal or state anti-trust laws, or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that currently, seriously and directly affects responsibility as a county vendor or contractor;
C.
Violation of contract provisions of a character regarded by the contract manager to be so serious as to justify debarment action, including but not limited to the following:
1.
Failure, without good cause, to perform in accordance with the
specifications
or
SoW
or within the time limits provided in the contract; or
2.
A recent record of failure to satisfactorily perform in accordance with the terms of one or more contracts; provided that failure to perform due to acts beyond the control of the vendor or contractor shall not be a basis for debarment. The term "recent" for purposes of this subsection shall mean within the prior year or the last contract with the county, whichever is greater in time.
D.
Any other cause that the contract manager determines to be so serious and compelling as to affect responsibility as a county vendor, including debarment by another governmental entity for any cause;
E.
Violation of the ethical standards set forth in article VIII; or
F.
Willful and material violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or other requirement applicable to a contract on a public project.
II.
Decision to debar or suspend
. If the decision is made to debar or suspend, the contract manager shall issue a written decision to debar or suspend. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the debarred or suspended vendor involved of its rights concerning review. A copy of the decision shall be mailed, return receipt requested, or otherwise furnished immediately to the debarred or suspended vendor.
III.
Finality of decision
. A decision under this section shall be final and conclusive, unless the debarred or suspended vendor takes an appeal to the
BOCC
, pursuant to article VII, within ten (10) days after delivery of the decision. A timely appeal to the BOCC is required prior to commencement of any Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 106 action.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, ยง 20-66, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021