Chapter 58 VEGETATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Buildings
and
building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38.
ARTICLE II. UNDESIRABLE PLANT MANAGEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Res. No. 2006-43, § 1, adopted November 27, 2006, repealed and reenacted article II, §§ 58-31, 58-32, 58-101—58-110, which pertained to
undesirable plants
management
, and derived from Res. No. 1992-93, § 1, adopted
May
27, 1992; Res. No. 1993-21, § 1, adopted May 18, 1993, and Res. No. 1997-62, § 2, adopted October 14, 1997.
Cross reference—
Undesirable plant and rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Undesirable plant management
advisory commission, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-107.
DIVISION 3. WEED MANAGEMENT PLAN
Sec. 58-105 Objectives of the La Plata County Weed Office
Sec. 58-105.1 Eradication and Control
Continually update La Plata County list A and B weeds list accordingly with the state noxious weed lists. A local governing body may adopt eradication, containment, or suppression standards that are more stringent than the standards adopted by the (state) commissioner (35-5.5-108). Certain state list B weeds that are rare in the County may be elevated to County List A status in order to better eradicate before widespread infestation occurs.
Focus on identifying and locating County List A noxious weeds and pursue eradication efforts with enforcement actions if necessary (Sec. 58-58 through 58-74)
Continually monitor County List B populations with the goal of containment if possible and reduction over time.
When deemed necessary, and according the Colorado Noxious Weed Act and La Plata County Code, enforcement will be utilized to protect neighboring parcels and decrease the spread of List A or List B weeds. See sections 58-58 through 58-74 of the La Plata County Code.
Sec. 58-105.2 Education and Awareness.
Education should be the first step in weed management and implementation plans.
Educate the public on the state mandated weed law (the Colorado Noxious Weed Act) and the state’s mandate that La Plata County act to manage, and sometimes to eradicate, certain noxious weeds so designated by the Department.
Educate and make the public aware of the State of Colorado A, B and C weed species, and additional weeds designated for management by the Board of County Commissioners (BoCC).
The weed office shall act as a reference or source of reliable up to date weed management techniques, including detailed proper use of herbicide products in an correct, effective, safe and environmentally sound method.
Provide educational materials, both in print and on-line, workshops, lectures, site visits, and personal consultation weed management and up to date technical information.
Colorado State University Cooperative Extension (sometimes hereinafter referred to as “CSU Extension”) will partner with the weed office and the La Plata County Advisory Commission in communicating to the public broad, efficient, and cost effective weed management programs.
Raise public awareness that noxious weeds disrupt intended land use and degrade the environment;
Raise public awareness that the county has limited funds with which to control noxious weeds (subject to limited availability);
Assist landowners and private enterprise in preparing integrated weed management plans;
Produce periodic press releases on weed management;
Advise individual producers and landowners on developing weed management plans (WMP);
Provide pesticide certification workshops;
Develop and implement test plots demonstrating effective weed management techniques and recommendations.
Sec. 58-105.3 Research, Inventory and Mapping
Continue mapping of noxious weeds countywide and compiling of information in cooperation with other agencies, specifically working with the Colorado Department of Agriculture (CDA) on updating required weed species on an annual basis.
Noxious weed surveys and maps shall be provided for any land owners within the County who request them.
A map showing the parcel and noxious weed infestations will be provided when sending out notice letters.
Maintain up to date GIS inventory of noxious weeds throughout the county using the most current mapping technology and methods. County roads should be mapped as well to monitor changes in infestations. Mapping data will be available for the public upon request.
Maintain a reference library and internet links of related materials for management of designated and noxious weeds. Material will be available in both paper form and on the weed office website.
Sec. 58-105.4  Treat and maintain weeds within County owned parcels, along County roads and in County rights of way.
Supervise the application of weed control on county property and rights-of-way within the county.
Sec. 58-105.5 Work collaboratively with County, regional and state efforts.
La Plata County shall encourage participation in Cooperative Weed Management Areas otherwise known as CWMA’s. The purpose of a CWMA is to unite people and resources in specific geographical areas to manage conditions and problematic noxious weeds. The formation of CWMA’s additionally provides an organized structure for which funds and grants can be obtained for the purpose of weed management. CWMA’s can benefit homeowners associations, specific watersheds which encompass areas like the Upper Pine Vallecito Lake or larger areas such as the 5.5 million acre San Juan Mountains Cooperative Weed Management Area (SJMCWMA).
Sec. 58-105.6 Provide Technical Assistance
The La Plata County Weed Office Manager and staff shall provide personal consultations on weed management and up to date technical information and assistance. They will offer consultation to individuals, groups, governing bodies and organizations in person in the office or in the field on site as necessary.
(Res. No. 2017-35, 10/24/17)
Effective on: 10/24/2017