Chapter 58 VEGETATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Buildings
and
building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38.
ARTICLE II. UNDESIRABLE PLANT MANAGEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Res. No. 2006-43, § 1, adopted November 27, 2006, repealed and reenacted article II, §§ 58-31, 58-32, 58-101—58-110, which pertained to
undesirable plants
management
, and derived from Res. No. 1992-93, § 1, adopted
May
27, 1992; Res. No. 1993-21, § 1, adopted May 18, 1993, and Res. No. 1997-62, § 2, adopted October 14, 1997.
Cross reference—
Undesirable plant and rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Undesirable plant management
advisory commission, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-107.
DIVISION 3. WEED MANAGEMENT PLAN
Sec. 58-108 Methods of Control
The La Plata County Weed Manager and staff will provide information and technical assistance and consultation and assistance implementing weed management techniques and plans to include but not be limited to:
preventative measures
control techniques
revegetation
rehabilitation techniques
Sec. 58-108.1 Prevention:
The first priority is to prevent the introduction of any noxious weed to any area not previously infested.
Many of the most common weed problems occur in response to disturbed soils. Disturbances can result from a number of conditions including overgrazed pastures, overused turf, clear cut woodlands, pipeline construction and energy/gravel development, improperly maintained road edges, and land development. Land management practices that minimize soil disturbance are invaluable in prevention and control of undesirable plant species.
Educate the public how viable seeds or propagating plant parts may spread by mechanical means. All equipment should be cleaned when leaving all infested areas to prevent contaminating rights-of-way and the next area entered. Practical solutions to accomplish this will be explored with industry professionals and findings will be published in written form and placed on the internet.
Gravel pits will be inspected once a year by the county weed manager to insure that these areas are not vectors for large scale noxious weed dispersal.
It is recommended that noxious weed-free certified seed is used in all applications. Feed containing viable noxious weed seeds should not be purchased, transported, or used: Since designated weeds will set seed prior to normal harvest dates, crops need to be treated if they are to be moved from the infested area.
Also to be considered is whether once seed has reached maturity, it can remain viable for years. During this time, it can re-infest the same area long after the weed problem appears to have been solved, or it can be transported to other areas. This can occur naturally by wind and water or mechanically by movement of vehicles or equipment. Seeds are also transported great distances by domestic animals and wildlife.
Small, isolated patches of weeds should be prioritized and eliminated as soon as possible to prevent a larger, more expensive problem later in the future.
Sec. 108.2 Mechanical control.
Mechanical control includes cultivation, mowing, hand pulling, tilling and burning. All of these measures,
when used and timed correctly
, can be of great help when used in conjunction with another type of control. When used alone on perennial plants, they rarely have a positive long-range effect due to the extensive underground root system. It may, in fact, make the problem worse through spreading seed or plant parts and by eliminating the desirable competitive species on site. These measures are much more effective with annuals and biennial plants if done before seeding occurs.
Sec. 58-108.3 Cultural control:
Cultural management of weeds includes methodologies or management practices that favor the growth of desirable plants over noxious weeds, including maintaining an optimum fertility and plant moisture status in an area, planting at optimum density and spatial arrangement in an area, and planting species most suited to an area. (CRS § 35-5.5 103 (9)(c)).
Other examples of increasing field conditions such that weeds are less likely to become established and/or increase in number are crop rotation, avoiding overgrazing of pastures or rangeland, use of beneficial animal or insects and using cover crops or other well-adapted competitive forage species.
Sec. 58-108.4 Biological control.
Biological control is the control of undesirable plants through the use of living organisms. The organism may be an insect, plant, pathogen or livestock, such as sheep, goats or cattle.
Recent programs have shown that livestock can be valuable in controlling many weed species, if managed correctly. This is especially true in instances of large infestations of annual and biennial weeds and in environmentally sensitive areas. The use of grazing on perineal species is largely ineffective. Animals must be contained onto infested areas for duration that is long enough to eliminate noxious weeds. When moving livestock from such an infested area for biological control, care should be taken to prevent transportation of seeds to a clean area. If possible, when applicable, livestock should be quarantined for five days to allow all seed to pass through the digestive track. Seed may also need to be removed from the animals' hair, wool and hooves.
Several species of insects are available for noxious weed management. They may be purchased by individuals to be used as part of an integrated plan. Evidence shows that there is limited success with this type of control. Use of insects is thought to be more of a long term suppression technique rather than short term eradication. For more information contact: the Colorado Department of Agriculture Insectary in Palisade, Colorado.
New research and development in bacteria, fungus and pathogens have shown promising results in decreasing infestations overtime. The county will continue to keep up to date in these techniques and educate the public on their uses and effectiveness. The use of test plots can further increase the knowledge and capacity of these measures to gain local insight that can be used for the county’s own weed treatment program.
Sec. 108.5 Chemical control.
The weed office shall act as a reference or source of reliable up to date of weed management techniques, including detailed proper use of herbicide products in an correct, effective, safe and environmentally sound method.
All chemical application must be done according to the label for each individual product.
The choice of chemicals and application rates that are used should be according to the product label. The applicator of herbicide must realize the importance of using the right product, at the right time to make treatment most effective. Calibration of spraying equipment is the most accurate way of determining the right rate of herbicide. Products that are volatile are not recommended. So herbicide can kill trees or lead to manure that can kill garden plants. Consultation with a county employee with a “Qualified Supervisor” license is the best resource for up to date, reliable herbicide information.
When herbicides are used at a diluted rate on plants, they can survive and reproduce. The new generations are now resistant to that chemical formulation and will become much harder to kill in the future. The County weed office must follow and recommend techniques that prevent herbicide resistance. This can be implemented by calibrating sprayers and requiring treatments that kill all weeds that are spraying. The public must be informed of the risks and dangers of resistance as well.
While chemicals are a powerful tool, it must be realized that they are just a tool and must be used only as a part of an integrated management plan.
The focus of this plan is excerpted from the Colorado Weed Management Act, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101 et seq..
(Res. No. 2017-35, 10-24-17)
Effective on: 10/24/2017