Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 2. LOSS CONTROL AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
Sec. 2-99. Committee Procedures
The Committee's responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
I.
Meet at least quarterly, but more often monthly.
II.
Maintain meeting notes, sign-in sheets, and Committee progress on actionable items.
III.
Provide factual and data-driven information regarding County losses.
IV.
Recommend action to Elected Officials and Department Heads in cases of negligent, flagrant, and/or continuous disregard for safety rules, policies, or procedures.
V.
Report the activities of the Committee to the County Manager, Elected Officials, and Department Heads.
VI.
Report to the appropriate Elected Official and/or Department Head any unsafe situation or condition that requires immediate action because it presents an imminent threat to employees or public safety.
VII.
Establish other subcommittees when needed.
A.
Accident Review Committee
1.
The Accident Review Committee can review, as needed, all accidents and incidents involving injury to county employees; injury to third parties while utilizing county property; damage to county property, damage to third-party property or equipment due to an accident or incident involving a county employee, property, or equipment; and/or motor vehicle accidents involving county-owned vehicles or personal vehicles operated by county employees while conducting official county business.
2.
The employees involved in the accident, if any, may be given notice of the time and place of the review, and may be entitled to attend, give testimony, and present such witnesses or evidence as they so desire. Testimony is not sworn. However, the Accident Review Committee may record the proceedings, at which time all parties present will be so advised. Failure of a county employee involved in an accident to attend, after receiving notice of such accident review, shall not be cause for the Accident Review Committee to discontinue its review.
3.
The Accident Review Committee makes a recommendation for corrective action, when applicable, to the appropriate Elected Official or Department Head after it concludes the review and findings. The County Manager receives a copy of the recommendation. The Accident Review Committee does not have the authority to impose employment disciplinary action on its own accord.
4.
Within 15 business days after the receipt of a recommendation, the Elected Official or Department Head must respond to and agree or disagree with the recommendation, citing the reason(s) why, and specifying any subsequent action(s) taken, if any.
5.
If, upon review of the accident, the Committee concludes that future accidents can be prevented through the change of policies or procedures, it will so advise the County Manager.
B.
Event Safety Committee
1.
The Event Safety Committee can review, as needed, county-run or county-sponsored events, or events held on county property.
2.
The Event Safety Committee makes safety improvement recommendations, when applicable, to the appropriate event host, event sponsor, or Elected Official or Department Head.
VIII.
​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
Implement and oversee (at the department level) all recommendations of the Committee as approved by the Risk Manager and the appropriate Elected Official or Department Head.
Res. No.
2024-21
, §  06/25/2024
Effective on: 6/25/2024