Chapter 72: Overlay Areas and Supplemental Overlay Standards
Sec. 72-3 Airport influence overlay designation and standards
I.
Purpose
. Airports can present unique safety, nuisance and regulatory concerns. The purpose of this section is to enact an airport influence overlay and associated regulations, providing for certain land development standards on the area surrounding the airport which may be affected by aircraft noise, vibrations, fumes, dust, fuel particles and other annoyances and influences from airport operation. Further, the use of land within the airport influence overlay area affects the safe and efficient operation of the airport and aircraft using the airport. This section is intended to minimize risks to public safety and hazards to aircraft users and to protect the capacity of the airport to serve the community’s air transportation needs.
II.
Applicability.
The standards contained in this section apply to the development of all uses within the airport influence overlay established pursuant to this section. The standards identified in this section shall apply in addition to all other applicable standards in this code.
III.
Establishment of overlay.
An airport safety overlay is hereby established for those areas of the unincorporated county lying within or under any zones of the navigational airspace around an airport as regulated by the FAA pursuant to the development and height standards of 14 C.F.R. Part 77, which may be more precisely shown in the most recent version of an airport's Airport Layout Plan on file with the FAA.
IV.
Agency referral
. All applications for land use permits related to real property within an airport safety overlay area shall be referred to the airport and the Federal Aviation Administration pursuant to subsection 66-11.II.
V.
Supplemental standards
. In addition to other standards set forth in this code, the following shall apply:
A.
Height. Development shall conform to height and navigable airspace standards and guidelines set forth in any applicable state or federal law or regulation, including without limitation the standards in 14 C.F.R. Part 77;
B.
Lighting. Development shall not include lighting that imitates airport lighting or is otherwise likely to impede the ability of pilots to distinguish between the development and the airport;
C.
Glare. Reflective materials utilized for development shall not produce brightness to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance as seen from the airport or that is likely to impede the ability of pilots to safely navigate into or out of the airport;
D.
Interference with airport operations. Development shall not:
1.
Cause or create interference with navigational signals or other communications sent to or received from the airport;
2.
Attract or otherwise contribute, by and not limited to its landscaping, to an increased presence of wildlife that may have an adverse impact on aeronautical activity;
3.
Violate the terms and conditions of any grant document between the airport and any federal or state governmental agency.
E.
Noise level attenuation. In order to protect the owners, lessees, occupants and other users of property within an airport safety overlay area, all buildings shall be constructed to reduce interior noise levels as follows:
1.
Residential uses and mixed uses. The owner of any building constructed primarily for residential use, or any portion of a mixed use building primarily intended for residential use, shall demonstrate in a form satisfactory to the director (whether by noise study or certification by an appropriate professional engineer or architect or otherwise) that the noise levels attributable to airport operations do not exceed fifty (50) db(A) inside such building or portion of a building.
2.
Commercial uses. The owner of any building constructed primarily for commercial use, or any portion of a mixed use building primarily intended for commercial use, shall demonstrate in a form satisfactory to the director (whether by noise study or certification by an appropriate professional engineer or architect or otherwise) that the noise levels attributable to airport operations do not exceed fifty-five (55) db(A) inside such building or portion of a building.
In administering these standards, the director may rely upon the most recent noise study or other analysis, if any, conducted with respect to the airport in order to establish presumptive noise levels based on the study or any related noise contour maps.
VI.
Fair disclosure requirements
. No person shall sell, lease or offer for sale or lease any real property located within an airport safety overlay area without notifying a prospective buyer or lessee that the property is within an airport safety overlay area and identifying the distance between the property and the airport. No plat shall be recorded for real property located within an airport safety overlay area without a note that the property is within an airport safety overlay area.
VII.
Avigation easement requirement.
Prior to issuance of any building, land use, or other development permit for property within an airport safety overlay area, the owner shall provide an avigation easement for the benefit of the City of Durango and La Plata County in a form acceptable to the county attorney. The avigation easement shall be for all real property owned by said owner within an airport safety overlay area and shall release the City of Durango and the county from liability, and hold the City of Durango, the county and the public harmless, for any and all claims for damages originating from dust, noise, vibration, fumes, fuel, lubricant, fuel and lubricant particles or any other effects that may be caused by aircraft landing, departing or operating at or near the airport.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 72-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020