Chapter 38 PUBLIC PLACES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Aviation, ch. 14; roads and bridges, ch. 42; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54; vegetation, ch. 58; natural resources, ch. 90; land
use
laws for public property, ch. 94; zoning, ch. 106.
ARTICLE I. PUBLIC USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—Ordinance No. 2025-01, adopted February 11, 2025, deleted Article I of Chapter 38 in its entirety and replaced the provisions contained within Ordinance No. 2025-01 from those of Res. Nos. 2014-17 and 2018-02, and Ord. Nos. 2022-01 and 2024-01 as the current provisions regarding use of county property.
Sec. 38-8 Storage or disposal of personal property and other items.
In addition to other applicable law, it is a violation of this section to place, abandon or to store personal property on county property, without prior authorization, or to place garbage or refuse anywhere on county property except in a designated receptacle.
I.
Unless part of a permitted, licensed use of space at the Fairgrounds or Senior Center for a contracted event, placing any items of personal property, other than written materials that may be specifically allowed under this code, is strictly prohibited regardless of whether such placement is designed or considered temporary or permanent in nature. Without limitation, this may include, but is not limited to: art, items in the nature of a memorial, statues, books, pamphlets, business cards, advertisements or signs.
II.
Except as set forth in subsection III below, provided personal property found on county property or in any facility is not hazardous, the authorizing official shall store all personal property discovered on county property, including encampments, as provided in this section. Personal property may be stored at the building or facility where it was discovered or at a location commonly used by the county for storing property. Personal property that is not recovered after seven (7) days from, and including, the day the property was stored may be discarded, recycled, used, donated or otherwise disposed of by the county.
III.
If the personal property is encountered when removing an encampment, the notice shall be posted at the encampment site for ten (10) days identifying:
A.
The date(s) the personal property was removed from the site;
B.
Where the personal property is stored; and
C.
How the personal property may be claimed by its owner.
After the ten-day notice period expires, any personal property that has not been claimed may be donated, sold, destroyed, thrown away or otherwise disposed of, depending on its value, conditions and potential environmental impact, at the discretion of the county.
IV.
An authorizing official may summarily, and without advance notice, remove and dispose of refuse, hazardous items, building materials or contraband found on any county property or in any facility. The authorizing official shall, before disposal of contraband, allow the appropriate law enforcement agency the opportunity to take possession of any contraband item.
Ord. No.
2025-01
, §  02/11/2025
Effective on: 2/14/2025