Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE I – INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 20-1 Purpose and authority
I.
Purpose
. Stewardship of public funds is a fundamental responsibility of county government. The public must have confidence that public funds are spent prudently and transparently on its behalf, with proper planning and evaluation, in a manner that is open and fair to all.
Under the direction of the Board of County Commissioners (“BOCC”), the La Plata County Procurement Code (this “code”) sets forth the policies and procedures that adhere to applicable laws and a commitment to promote competition, maximize purchasing power, and ensure fair opportunity and equitable treatment of all who seek to do business with the county.
The purpose of this
code
is to guide county personnel in fulfilling their obligations to the public, grantors,
vendors
, and
contractors
in the expenditure of public funds. The code is a comprehensive reference manual for both county personnel and outside parties who have an interest in the county’s
procurement
and contracting processes. It is intended as a guide to good procurement practices and is to be used as a supplement to state law, sound business judgment in procurement and contracting.
The policies set forth in this code are intended to:
1.    Provide a procurement program encompassing nationally and regionally approved principles and practices.
2.    Be reviewed, thoughtfully and regularly, to ensure the utility of the code and to make periodic modifications          and improvements that will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the procurement function.
3.   Promote and encourage ethical management and efficiency in the county procurement procedures.
4.   Support consistent procurement procedures within all county departments.
5.   Bolster public confidence in public procurement procedures.
6.    Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons dealing with the county procurement system.
7.    Provide increased economy in county procurement activities.
8.    Maximize the procurement value of county funds.
9.    Safeguard the high quality and integrity of the procurement system.
10.  Ensure that the expenditure of public funds complies with the terms and conditions of the funding source.
This code is presented in a manner that is intended to address each of these factors in a straightforward and       practical way.
Article 1 explains why, when and how to use this code.
Article 2 explains the roles and responsibilities of those involved in public procurement.
Article 3 explains how to select vendors and conduct county purchases.
Article 4 explains the key to every successful purchase: specifications and scopes of work.
Article 5 explains the competitive solicitation processes and the requirements of each.
Article 6 explains the contract options that apply to every purchase, regardless of amount.
Article 7 explains the determination, protest, claims and dispute resolution processes.
Article 8 explains the legal and ethical obligations of every public employee.
II. Authority.
This code is adopted pursuant to the power and authorities conferred by the laws of the State of Colorado, including but not limited to the following sections of the Colorado Revised Statutes: Article 11 of Title 30 (County Powers and Functions); Article 20 of Title 30 (Public Improvements); and Article 25 of Title 30 (Administration of County Finance).
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20.1, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021