Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-19 Fences and walls
I.
Applicability.
All fences and walls required by the county for new development or buffering or screening shall comply with the following minimum requirements, unless otherwise specified in this code.
II.
Fence and wall standards
. Installation of fences may be required as a condition of development approval in areas where it is determined to be necessary for compatibility to provide protection to the occupants, provide for safe use of the parcel or adjacent parcel(s), or to buffer between differing land uses.
A.
Fences for buffering purposes shall be opaque, non-reflective, and at least six (6) feet, but not more than eight (8) feet high. For the purposes of this section, the height of a fence shall be the distance from the top of the fence or wall to the finished grade of the lot directly under the fence.
B.
Fences for buffering purposes shall be made of traditional fencing materials, including but not limited to wood pickets, wrought iron, wire, chain link, and block. Chain link fencing adjacent to residential development with or without slats shall not be used as a fencing material for buffering purposes.
C.
Fences for industrial uses and commercial uses shall be constructed to orient any exposed structural framework to the interior of the property being developed.
D.
For instances where fencing exceeds one hundred (100) feet along collector or arterial roads, features shall be used to avoid creating a “tunneling” effect which may be accomplished by integrating architectural elements such as brick or stone columns, varying alignment or setback of the fence, or softening the appearance of the fence lines with plantings of shrubs or trees.
E.
No fence or wall shall obstruct visibility at access points.
F.
To the maximum extent feasible, all fences or walls shall be constructed to be wildlife friendly and to not ensnare or otherwise cause injury to wildlife. All fences or walls enclosing an area of one (1) acre or greater shall allow for the safe passage of wildlife.
G.
All retaining walls in excess of four (4) feet in total height, whether in a single line or in steps, shall be designed by a professional engineer.
H.
Landscaping shall be provided on any steps in the retaining wall and at the base to soften the appearance of the retaining wall.
I.
To the maximum extent feasible, attention shall be given to the visual impact of retaining walls as viewed from off-site. Color and type of materials shall be chosen to minimize negative visual impacts.
J.
All retaining walls shall have adequate subsurface drainage.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 70-19, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020