Chapter 46 SOLID WASTE
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Solid waste advisory committee, § 2-591 et seq.;
buildings
and building regulations, ch.
18.
State Law reference—
Abatement of nuisances, C.R.S. § 16-13-301 et seq.;
dumping
rubbish
, etc., C.R.S. § 18-4-511; solid waste recycling, C.R.S. § 25-17-101 et seq.; regulations regarding nuisances, C.R.S. §§ 25-1-611—25-1-622; general regulations by ordinance, C.R.S. § 30-15-401; Colorado
noxious weed
act, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101 et seq.; nuisance
weed
abatement, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-113.
ARTICLE II. COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Littering of
public or private property
, C.R.S. § 18-4-511; authority to prohibit and abate nuisances, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(a)(I); solid waste disposal
sites
and
facilities
, C.R.S. § 30-20-100.5 et seq
DIVISION 3. CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
Sec. 46-73. Application review procedures.
Any
applicant
shall
obtain a class II land
use
permit
under the
county
permit system and appendices prior to, or contemporaneous with, consideration for a certificate of designation. A class II land use permit, under the county permit system and appendices, shall be a condition precedent to the approval of any certificate of designation. An application for a certificate of designation, when determined to be complete by the county manager or his designee, shall be reviewed in accordance with all of the standards, procedures, criteria, factors and regulations as contained in C.R.S. § 30-20-102 et seq., the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the county permit system standards, the statements and representations of the applicant, the submittals required by these procedures, and the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county. An incomplete application shall not be considered or processed. In
addition
to the number of copies of the complete application as required by the state, the applicant shall also submit not less than five complete applications for county review.
Upon receipt of a complete application, it shall be filed with the
board of county commissioners
of the county. All such applications shall be referred to the Colorado
Department
of Health for review and for recommendation as to approval or disapproval as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-20-103(1). Complete applications shall also be referred by the applicant, to all local health departments; all municipalities within a three mile radius, or proposed to be served by, the solid waste
site
and
facility
and as determined at the pre-application hearing. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of designation, the board of county commissioners shall hold a public hearing after notice, as provided in § 30-20-105(3). At the public hearing, the applicant shall bear the
burden of proof
that the certification of designation should be issued. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, the designation of approved solid wastes disposal sites and facilities shall be in the discretion of the board of county commissioners. The exercise of such discretion shall, however, be based upon the evidence presented. Notice of the public hearing shall contain the time and place of the bearing, shall state the matter to be considered is the applicant's proposal for a solid waste disposal site and facility, shall provide a description of such proposed site and facility, and shall provide a description of the geographic area which is within three miles of such proposed site and facility. The notice shall be published in at least one newspaper having general circulation in the county, at least ten but not more than 30 days prior to the public hearing, and shall be posted at a conspicuous place in at least one location at the offices of the board of county commissioners and in at least one location at the proposed site. Such notice shall be posted for a period beginning at least 30 days before the public hearing and continuing through the date of such hearing.
At the public hearing, the following shall be submitted, at a minimum, by the applicant: (i) the complete application, (ii) report of the department of health, (iii) comprehensive land use plans, ordinances, regulations and/or permits, (iv) the recommendations of local departments of health, and municipalities to be served by the solid waste site and facility, and (v) other pertinent information. Pertinent information shall include, but not be limited to, the requirements of these rules, § 30- 20-102 et seq., and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. At the public hearing, the board of county commissioners shall hear written and oral testimony by governmental entities and residents concerning the proposed site or facility. The board of county commissioners
may
make such rulings concerning the order of proceedings at the public hearing, including but not limited to reasonable continuances of the public hearing for additional information, special studies or testimony, as they in their discretion shall decide.
After the close of the public hearing, the
board
of county
commissioners
may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application for a Certificate of Designation, in the event of a vote for an approval, or approval with-conditions, the board shall direct County
staff
to prepare an appropriate certificate as provided by C.R.S. § 30-20-105, and the regulations adopted thereunder.
(Res. No. 1992-29, § 1(Exhibit 1), 5-27-1992)
Effective on: 5/27/1992