Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE IV. - TRANSFERS OF 06CW99 WATER RIGHT INCREMENTS
Sec. 94-50. - Annual reports.
Special exceptions. If notified by the planning director pursuant to subsection 94-43(c)(4), a water user may request that the board of county commissioners approve a special exception as specifically contemplated in subsection 94-45(a)(3), subsection 94-45(a)(3)a., and subsection 94-45(a)(4) of this article. Special exception requests shall be in writing and shall state with specificity the grounds for the special exception. The planning director shall not charge an additional fee for a special exception request as long as the water user already paid the administrative processing fee as part of the initial application for an increment. The board of county commissioners shall review the special exception request within 40 business days of the request being filed with the planning director. The planning director shall file a report with the board of county commissioners recommending approval, conditional approval, or denial of the special exception request, and shall provide a copy of the report to the water user. The board of county commissioners may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the special exception request. Factors the board of county commissioners may consider include, but are not limited to the following:
The intended benefit to the water user, the county, and the community as a whole.
Any proposed water conservation equipment or techniques designed to reduce the total amount of water needed.
Competing uses for the water.
The public's best interest.
Appeals. A water user alleging that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or refusal made by the planning director based on or made in the enforcement of this article may appeal to the board of county commissioners. Such appeals shall be in writing, shall state with specificity the grounds of the appeal, and shall be filed with the planning director within 20 business days of the decision, order, requirement, or refusal being appealed. The board of county commissioners shall review the planning director's decision, order, requirement, or refusal within 40 business days of the appeal being filed with the planning director. The planning director shall file a report with the board of county commissioners recommending approval or denial of the appeal, and shall provide a copy of the report to the water user. The board of county commissioners may amend the planning director's decision, order, requirement, or refusal based on the same information and/or materials relied on by the planning director and the same applicable provisions from this article.
(Res. No. 2012-35, § 1(Exh. A), 8-28-2012, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017