Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-5 Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks
I.
Purpose.
This section is enacted to establish, maintain and enforce minimum standards for the development of organized campgrounds, including recreational vehicle parks, and to ensure proper utilities, physical facilities and other conditions required to make campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks safe, sanitary and fit for human habitation.
II.
Applicability.
These standards and submittal requirements apply to any land use permit application proposing a primitive, semi-primitive, semi-developed, developed or modern campground (as those uses are defined in this code and state law), including recreational vehicle parks. Tiny homes on wheels are allowed in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks subject to the same standards and requirements in this section for recreational vehicles.
III.
Standards specific to campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
A.
Ownership. A campground or recreational vehicle park may only be established on a single parcel.
B.
Site location. The site shall be well drained, free from topographical hazards, natural hazards or other conditions unfavorable to proper enjoyment by users.
C.
Property line setbacks. Each campground and recreational vehicle park shall provide the following setbacks along the property line of the subject parcel with respect to all facilities, including individual campsites and spaces, on the site:
1.
From a property line adjacent to any public highway or right-of-way: twenty-five (25) feet;
2.
Recreational vehicle campsites shall be located at least twenty-five (25) feet from the property line.
D.
Internal setbacks. The location of each campsite, space, or other facility on the site shall be situated to allow for compliance with the following internal setbacks:
1.
All recreational vehicles, including awning and other attachments, motor vehicles and temporary accessory structures must be placed at least three (3) feet from the boundaries of the recreational vehicle campsite;
2.
All recreational vehicles shall be located at least ten (10) feet from buildings and other recreational vehicles on adjacent recreational vehicle campsites.
E.
Water supply, sewage disposal and sewage collection.  The following standards apply:
1.
Primitive campgrounds and semi-primitive campgrounds shall conform to the state regulations for campgrounds and recreation areas relating to water supply, sewage disposal and sewage collection rather than the standards set forth in chapter 70.
2.
Semi-developed campgrounds, developed campgrounds, and modern campgrounds shall conform to the state regulations for campgrounds and recreation areas relating to water supply, sewage disposal and sewage collection in addition to the standards set forth in chapter 70, including but not limited to the ability of a campground to prove that no water demand exists and therefore need not comply with portions of 70-4.
3.
Any residential dwelling unit located on the same parcel as a campground or recreational vehicle park, whether used as a caretaker unit or otherwise and regardless of the type of campground, shall conform to the state regulations for campgrounds and recreation areas relating to water supply, sewage disposal and sewage collection in addition to the standards set forth in chapter 70.
F.
Access. Each campground, except primitive and semi-primitive sites, and each recreational vehicle park shall have access to a county road, state highway or road on federal lands. Accessibility to such roads must be established to accommodate large recreational vehicles with limited turning movements, reduced visibility and slower acceleration speeds.
1.
Entrance roads. All entrance roads that do not front campsites shall conform with chapter 74.
2.
Interior roads. Each campsite, except walk-in sites, and recreational vehicle campsite shall front upon an interior road which conforms to the state regulations for campgrounds rather than chapter 74, and each campsite not fronting directly upon a conforming road shall have a clear and unobstructed access of not less than ten (10) feet in width to a conforming road.
G.
Parking. Parking areas and spaces shall be provided in semi-developed campgrounds, developed campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks for automobiles, camping or recreational vehicles, boats, trailers and other appurtenant equipment at the rate of at least one (1) space per campsite or recreational vehicle campsite. No recreational vehicle shall be parked outside a designated recreational vehicle campsite. Each recreational vehicle stand shall be surfaced with a minimum of four (4) inches of compacted gravel with a maximum aggregate size of two (2) inches. In recreational areas accessible to motor vehicles, all vehicular traffic shall be restricted to roadways and parking areas. Parking space shall be provided for the estimated maximum number of users at the rate of one (1) space for four (4) persons and shall not exceed one hundred (100) spaces per acre. Should additional uses be contemplated as part of the development proposal, adequate parking shall be provided pursuant to section 70-18.
H.
Limitation on use. Camping parties and users shall be limited to that number for which the physical facilities were designed. Use of primitive and semi-primitive campgrounds shall be limited to membrane structures. Use of semi-developed, developed and modern campgrounds may, depending upon the level of improvements include membrane structures, self-propelled vehicles, towed camping units and recreational vehicles. The maximum length of stay for a camping party shall be sixty (60) days. Movement from one space within the campground or recreational vehicle park to another shall not waive this limitation. Recreational vehicle parks are not intended for the temporary or long-term storage of recreational vehicles. Use of a recreational vehicle park as temporary or long-term storage may require a land use permit under section 73-7, Commercial outdoor storage.
I.
Identification of campsites. Campsites and recreational vehicle campsites shall be clearly marked and identified.
J.
Size of campsites and recreational vehicle campsites. Each campsite or recreational vehicle campsite shall provide at least nine hundred (900) square feet of space. No more than one (1) recreational vehicle may be parked in a single space.
K.
Density. The density of campsites and recreational vehicle campsites shall not be more than twenty-five (25) per acre excluding roads, buildings and other common use areas.
L.
Structures. No permanent or semi-permanent structures, such as cabins, lean-tos, sheds or habitable buildings shall be erected in the campground except by the owner of the real property and shall be erected in accordance with the building code. Temporary structures such as awnings, screened enclosures, and other similar equipment, which are normal camping equipment, may be erected but must be removed when the campsite is vacated.
M.
Vegetation. Natural vegetation and ground cover shall be maintained or provided to facilitate drainage, reduce dust, prevent erosion and reduce fire hazards.
N.
Wildlife impacts. Applicant shall assess and, to the maximum extent feasible, prevent adverse impacts to wildlife in compliance with approved mitigation measures set forth in the applicant’s wildlife analysis.
O.
Community service buildings or open space. All community service buildings shall conform to the requirements of the state regulations for campgrounds and the building code. At least two hundred (200) square feet for each space within a campground or recreational vehicle park shall be reserved for recreational and community use by the occupants of the campground or park.
P.
Operators and caretakers. The operator of the campground or caretaker of a recreational vehicle park shall maintain the grounds and common use sanitary facilities, equipment and utilities in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and shall insure that solid waste is collected at least once per week or more frequently if necessary to prevent nuisance conditions or wildlife encounters. A recreational vehicle park may include one (1) residential dwelling unit for the purpose of providing housing or shelter for the caretaker or supervisor of the park.
Q.
Fires. Fires will be permitted only in facilities which have been provided for such purposes or where open fires are allowed. Fire pits or other cooking facilities shall be located, constructed, maintained, and used to minimize fire hazard and smoke nuisance in the campground, recreational vehicle park and the neighboring properties.
R.
Fire protection. Development subject to this section shall comply with the fire code as prescribed by the chief of the fire district.
IV.
Submittal requirements.
In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-11, applicant shall submit the following documents and materials:
A.
Operating plan. A plan for the method of operations, including without limitation:
1.
Statement of the proposed operational periods;
2.
Plan to minimize adverse impacts on wildlife and minimize nuisances;
3.
Refuse disposal plan, including management of container;
4.
A statement of the number of permanent and temporary employees anticipated on site during operation;
5.
A statement addressing preparedness and protocol for responding to a wildfire beginning on or in the vicinity of the campground or recreational vehicle park;
6.
Plan for general caretaking.
B.
A copy of the proposed rules for the campground or recreational vehicle park addressing, at a minimum; fire safety, practices to prevent adverse impacts on wildlife, control of domestic animals such as dogs and a mechanism for enforcement of such rules.
C.
A copy of the wildlife analysis.
D.
Evidence of all necessary CDPHE permits for sanitation and sanitary disposal stations and a statement addressing how the construction, layout, and operation of the campground or recreational vehicle park is in general conformance with all state requirements.
E.
Site plan. A site plan containing these additional requirements, whether existing or proposed:
1.
The area and dimensions of the entire parcel and the site proposed for use;
2.
Land use and activity proposed within the site;
3.
Topography of the parcel with contour lines of sufficient detail to portray the direction and rate of slope of the parcel;
4.
The number, size, location and surfacing materials of the proposed campsites or recreational vehicle campsites and other parking areas;
5.
Location, roadway and right-of-way widths and surfacing materials of public roadways providing access to the site;
6.
The interior vehicular circulation pattern, including widths, surfacing materials and proposed design speed and pedestrian circulation pattern;
7.
Location and proposed use of structures;
8.
Location of solid waste collection receptacles which shall be designed to be in accordance with CPW to prevent wildlife conflicts;
9.
Location of a potable water distribution system, including proof of the water’s source, quality and quantity, if proposed;
10.
Location of sanitary sewer collection and treatment system, including capacity, if proposed;
11.
Location of lighting, gas and electric systems, if proposed;
12.
Location of fences, buffering and landscaping areas.
F.
Plan for the removal and abatement of noxious weeds.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-5, 09/15/2020; Res. No. 2022-01, § 73-5, 01/04/2022
)
Effective on: 1/4/2022