Chapter 18 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article II general provisions
Sec. 18-35  Scope and Administration
Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Residential Code and Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Building Code are deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
(
Res. No. 2004-15, § 1 (Exh. A), 05/24/2004; Res. No. 2017-33, § 18-35, 10/10/2017; Res. No. 2023-15, § 18-35, 06/06/2023
)
Section 116 Unsafe
Structures
and
Equipment
116.1 Conditions. Structures, existing equipment, or
sewage
disposal systems that are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary, or deficient because of inadequate means of egress
facilities
; inadequate light and/or ventilation; existence of a fire
hazard
; because they are otherwise dangerous to human life or the
public
welfare; or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be deemed to contain an unsafe condition. Structures containing an unsafe condition shall be taken down and removed or made safe, as the
building official
deems necessary and as provided for in this section. A vacant structure that is not secured against entry shall be deemed unsafe.
Exception:
Agricultural
buildings
or structures whose sole purpose is to provide shelter for agricultural implements, farm products,
livestock
, or poultry (as described in C.R.S. § 30-28-201(1)) and which have no human occupancy are presumed to not present a danger to human life or public welfare, and thus may not be subject to the provisions of this section.
116.2 Record. The building official shall cause any report documenting an unsafe condition to be maintained in the records of the Building
Department
pursuant to section
18-35
(104.7). The report shall describe the occupancy of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
116.3 Notice.  If an unsafe condition is found, the building official shall serve on the
owner
,
agent
, or
person
in
control
of the structure, equipment, or system a written notice that describes the condition deemed unsafe and shall specify the required repairs or
improvements
to be made to abate the unsafe condition, or require the unsafe structure to be demolished within a specified time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the building official acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order. If the notified person rejects the terms of the order, the building official may
resort
to any legal remedy available to obtain the person’s compliance.
116.4 Method of service.  Such notice shall be deemed properly served if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner of the property personally; sent by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known address as shown on the
County
Assessor’s property tax rolls, with return receipt requested; or posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure or
premises
containing the equipment or system affected by such notice.  If the certified or registered letter is returned showing that the letter is not delivered, a copy thereof may be duly posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure or premises containing the equipment or system affected by such notice, and such notice shall be considered properly served. Service of such notice in the forgoing manner upon the owner's agent or upon the person responsible for the structure, equipment, or system shall constitute proper service of notice upon the owner.
116.5 Restoration. The owner, owner’s agent, or person in control of the structure, equipment or system determined to be unsafe by the building official shall immediately restore the structure, equipment, or system to a safe condition, as determined by the building official in the exercise of his or her discretion. To the extent that repairs,
alterations
, or
additions
are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration, such repairs, alterations, additions, or change of occupancy shall comply with the requirements of section
18-35
(105.2.2) and Chapter 34 of La Plata County
Code
.
Effective on: 12/11/2017