Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Four Corners Regional Trauma Advisory Council, § 2-386 et seq.; Southwest
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-621 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch.
22
; fire prevention and protection, ch.
34
.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
La Plata
Emergency
Medical Services Council, § 2-271 et seq.
State Law reference—
Emergency medical services, C.R.S. § 25-3.5-101 et seq.
DIVISION 4. REGULATIONS
Sec. 26-142. Number of approved services and service areas.
The county is currently divided into 4 geographic areas as indicated in Appendix 26-142, each served by a fire protection district. Each fire protection district, with the assistance of its neighbors and others through mutual aid or other agreements, has provided ambulance services within its jurisdiction. The county’s needs for ambulance services are well served by fire protection districts, ambulance districts, and metropolitan districts organized within La Plata County under the Special District Act, C.R.S. §§ 32-1-101
et seq
. Without limiting the authority of the
Board of County Commissioners
to issue sufficient authorizations to operate as it determines is necessary to meet the needs for ambulance services within La Plata County, the
Board of County Commissioners
intends to limit the number of authorizations to operate to a maximum of one primary authorization to operate within each jurisdiction of a fire protection district, ambulance district, or metropolitan district organized within La Plata County under the Special District Act with authority to provide fire protection services and/or emergency medical services. Absent extraordinary conditions found by the
Board of County Commissioners
, the
Board of County Commissioners
does not intend to issue an authorization to operate to a person or entity that allows for ongoing and regular service within the jurisdiction of another fire protection district, ambulance district, or metropolitan district organized within La Plata County under the Special District Act with authority to provide fire protection services and/or emergency medical services unless supported by a written agreement signed by both entities that addresses the sharing of service responsibilities within the respective jurisdictions. The
Board of County Commissioners
will also entertain applications for authorizations to operate that propose new geographic areas or otherwise intend to serve within areas of the county that are not currently served within an existing fire protection district, ambulance district, or metropolitan district.
Figure 26-142: Ambulance Response Zones of La Plata County
Res. No.
1997-59
, § IV(2), 10/10/1997; Res. No.
2024-23
, §  06/25/2024
Effective on: 7/1/2024