Chapter 80: Enforcement and Penalties
Sec. 80-4 Right of entry and inspection
When a person charged with enforcement of this code has reasonable cause to believe any project or use is being conducted or any condition exists which is contrary to or in violation of this code or any condition of approval of a project, such person may enter and inspect or cause to be entered or inspected at reasonable times, any real property, lot, parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility that is, or should be, subject to a land use permit to determine compliance with this code or the applicable land use permit. Such inspections may include the following:
I.
Observation
. Observations of the real property or use from those portions of the property which are open or accessible to the public, from public property, areas in which the owner or occupant lacks a reasonable expectation of privacy, or from other private property for which permission to enter has been obtained from an owner, agent or occupant.
II.
Entry pursuant to court order
. Entry onto the real property, lot, parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility pursuant to a court order obtained after submitting a request for an administrative warrant or other order authorizing inspection which included an affidavit detailing the facts to support a reasonable belief that a violation is likely to exist, and further investigation of the property is warranted.
III.
Emergency
. Entry onto the real property, lot, parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility in emergency situations in which a person authorized under this chapter to enforce the code has reason to believe the public health or safety is in imminent danger and could be jeopardized by any delay in securing entry.
IV.
Permission
. Entry onto the real property, lot, parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility after receiving express permission from the owner, agent, occupant or alleged violator. An applicant’s signature on a land use permit application shall constitute permission for entry and inspection of the property subject to the application but only until the application has received final approval, conditional approval or denial by the decision-making body.
V.
Other applicable law
. Entry upon or into, or inspection of, any real property, lot, parcel, right-of-way, site, building, structure, improvement or other facility otherwise permitted by law.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 80-4, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020