Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 39. WILDFIRE AND WATERSHED PROTECTION FUND ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Sec. 2-701. Wildfire and Watershed Protection Fund Advisory Committee
I.
Established.
There is hereby established a
wildfire and watershed protection fund advisory committee (the “WWPF Advisory Committee”)
.
II.
Membership, qualifications and terms.
The members of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall be composed of the following seven (7) members: two (2) members appointed by the Durango City Council (“City”); two (2) members appointed by the County’s Board of County Commissioners (“County”); two (2) members appointed by the DFPD Board of Directors (“DFPD”), and one (1) at-large member appointed through a majority vote of the other appointed members of the WWPF Advisory Committee. The WWPF Coordinator shall attend meetings of the WWPF Advisory Committee but shall not be a member of the Advisory Committee.
A.
Qualifications and terms of office of regular members.
1.
Qualifications
. Each regular member of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall be a resident of La Plata
County
and shall have reached the age of 18 years on the effective date of their appointment.
2.
Background, education or experience
. Each member should have a demonstrated background, education, or experience in one or more of the following areas: forestry, forest and watershed health, improvement and restoration, natural resource management, wildfire mitigation, local government or similar subjects that will aid the purposes of the advisory committee.
3.
Terms
. The term of office for members shall be staggered with one appointment from each of the appointing entity serving one (1) year and the second appointment serving a two (2) year term. The at-large appointment shall serve a term of two (2) years. A member may be reappointed for successive terms. Unless removed in the manner described in this Section, a member shall hold office until a successor has been appointed.
4.
Removal and filling of vacancies
.
Committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the entity that appointed them and may be removed by the appointing entity at any time for any reason. The effective date of such removal shall be determined by the appointing entity and without regard to the vacancy provisions set forth herein. Vacancies other than by reason of expiration of terms shall be filled by the original appointing entity for the unexpired term.
B.
Compensation.
A committee member shall receive no compensation for services, but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in the discharge of their duties.
C.
Financial interest of committee members.
1.
No WWPF Advisory Committee member nor any immediate member of the family of any such member shall acquire any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property or concession associated with the Wildfire and Watershed Protection Fund (the “Fund”), nor shall they have any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or proposed contract for materials or services to be furnished or used in connection with the Fund; provided, however, no WWPF Advisory Committee member shall be precluded from participating in a wildfire mitigation program sponsored or funded by the Fund on the same terms and conditions as any other property owner.
2.
If any WWPF Advisory Committee member owns or controls a financial interest, direct or indirect, in any property or in any concession, contract or proposed contract for materials or services associated with the Fund, he or she shall immediately disclose the same in writing to the WWPF Advisory Committee and the City, County and DFPD, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the WWPF Advisory Committee. Upon such disclosure, such member shall recuse himself or herself and shall not participate in any action by the WWPF Advisory Committee affecting the project, property, concession, or contract unless the WWPF Advisory Committee determines that, in the light of and notwithstanding such personal interest, the participation of such member would not be contrary to the public interest. Acquisition or retention of any such interest without disclosure to the WWPF Advisory Committee or participation with respect to a project, property, concession, or contract without a determination by the WWPF Advisory Committee that such participation is not contrary to the public interest shall constitute misconduct in office.
III.
Meetings and records.
A.
Officers and bylaws. The WWPF Advisory Committee shall elect a chair from its members, whose term shall be for one (1) year. The WWPF Advisory Committee may create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary. The WWPF Advisory Committee shall be empowered to adopt and amend bylaws governing its procedures as it may consider necessary or advisable. Such bylaws shall be consistent with this code.
B.
Meetings and records of proceedings.
All meetings of a quorum of or three or more members of the WWPF Advisory Committee, whichever is less, at which any public business is discussed or at which any formal action may be taken are public meetings. Meetings of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall be open to the public and conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open Meetings Law, C.R.S. § 24-6-401,
et seq
. and records of its proceedings shall be kept and open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the Colorado Open Records Act, C.R.S. § 24-72-201,
et seq
. Notices and agendas of public meetings of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall be posted at the legal posting locations for the County, City and DFPD. The WWPF Advisory Committee shall meet as often as necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
C.
Quorum. Except as may be otherwise provided by statute, four (4) members of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the Committee at any meeting. If a quorum is present, the decision of one (1) or more members of the WWPF Advisory Committee to abstain from voting thereon shall not be deemed to constitute less than a quorum for the transaction of business. Action of the WWPF Advisory Committee shall be by majority vote of those entitled to vote. Abstention shall not be counted as votes for the purpose of determining a majority. A tie vote constitutes a denial of the proposed action by the WWPF Advisory Committee.
D.
Subcommittees. The
WWPF Advisory Committee
may create and appoint members to any subcommittees it deems appropriate to accomplish its duties; however, any recommendations of any subcommittee to the
WWPF Advisory Committee
must also be reviewed and approved by a majority of the members of the
WWPF Advisory Committee
.
IV.
General responsibilities and function of the WWPF Advisory Committee
. The WWPF Advisory Committee shall act in an advisory capacity to the WWPF Coordinator and the City, County and DFPD in all matters relating to the Fund. Its duties shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
A.
Work plan. Advise and assist with the implementation of the 2021-22 work plan and develop and update the work plan for each subsequent year’s targeted projects with specific attention to long-term sustainability of the Fund. Solicit input for such plans from the public, the La Plata County Wildfire Advisory Board, and the City, County and DFPD and their relevant departments and staff.  An updated work plan with proposed in-kind contributions and initial budget recommendations shall be made to the City, County and DFPD by the WWPF Advisory Committee and the WWPF Coordinator no later than June 1st and updated not later than September 1st of each year to allow the City, County and DFPD an adequate opportunity to evaluate those requests and to consider the inclusion of the requested funding in the draft budgets of each City, County and DFPD.
B.
Marketing and public relations.
Advise and assist the WWPF Coordinator in the development of an annual marketing and public relations strategy to promote use of the Fund and its programs and services.
C.
Grants or other funding opportunities. Advise and assist the WWPF Coordinator in the application for and receipt from any source gifts, bequests, grants, aid or contributions of money, equipment, services, property, labor, or other things of value to be held, used, and applied to carry out the purposes of Fund. Particular focus should be placed on opportunities that allow collaborative landscape level treatments or the lowering of expenses through the capture of efficiencies not otherwise available through a piecemeal approach.
D.
Programmatic evaluations. Advise and assist the WWPF Coordinator in the development of tools to measure the success of sponsored treatment programs and use of Fund revenues. Perform periodic evaluations on at least a yearly basis and report outcomes to the City, County and DFP Develop tools to monitor completed programs.  Coordinate monitoring efforts with other initiatives.
E.
Budget. Provide input into the preparation of the annual budget recommendations to the City, County and DFPD for the Fund’s operations and provide an annual report to the City, County and DFPD relative to future growth and development of Fund programs and activities, including recommendations for short-term and long-term programs, services, revenue, expenses, staffing, and other relevant matters. Review the WWPF Coordinator’s monthly budget report and report of operational activity regarding the Fund.
F.
Policies and procedures. Develop and adopt advisory policies and procedures regarding watershed protection or forest health programs and activities involving the Fund. Set fees and charges for services, programs or facilities provided through the Fund.
G.
Other duties. Perform any such other and further duties and responsibilities consistent with the purposes of the Fund as may be requested or assigned.
(
Res. No. 2021-33, § 2-701, 11/23/2021
)
Effective on: 11/23/2021