Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Sec. 69-6 relationship to other regulations
I.
Inconsistencies or
conflict with other county regulations. If any of the provisions of this chapter conflict with the provisions of any other county regulations or requirements, then the more stringent regulations or requirement shall apply as determined by the
county
.
II.
Compliance with other regulations.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, compliance with this chapter does not waive the requirement to comply with any other applicable state, local or federal law or regulation. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as enhancing or diminishing the power and authority of
municipalities
, counties, state or federal agencies or the Public Utilities Commission. Any order, rule or directive issued by any governmental agency pursuant to this chapter shall not be inconsistent with or in contravention of any decision, order or finding of the Public Utilities Commission with respect to public convenience and necessity. The Public Utilities Commission and
public utilities
shall take into consideration and, when feasible, foster compliance with the county’s adopted
comprehensive plan
.
III.
Coordinated review and permitting. Any
applicant
for a
permit
under this chapter that is also subject to the regulations of other state or federal agencies may request that the county application and review process be coordinated with that of the other agency. To the extent practicable and appropriate, the county will coordinate its approval of the application, including the terms and conditions of such approval, with that of other agencies.
IV.
Overlap between matters of state interest. When an applicant
engages in
development
or activity that implicates permit
requirements under this chapter for more than one
matter of state interest
, the applicant
shall complete and submit a single permit application that includes all pertinent areas and activities.
V.
Overlap with other county land use permit. Where the procedures in this chapt
er overlap with the county’s requirements for a land use permit, subdivision plat or minor subdivision review, the permit procedures in this chapter shall control. In the case of a major permit review, a separate review process under
chapter
66
,
67
, or
68
may, subject
to the
director
’s d
iscretion, be modified. Compliance with this chapter does not waive the requirement to comply with the provisions set forth in
Chapter 74
.
VI.
Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is held to be unlawful, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of law,
such decision shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part other than the part declared unlawful, invalid or unconstitutional.
(
Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-6, 10/01/2019
)
Effective on: 10/1/2019