Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE VIII - ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING
Sec. 20-89 Remedies and consequences of breach
All procedures under this section shall be exercised in accordance with due process requirements and existing law. Notice and an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided prior to imposition of any employment consequence.
I.
Recovery of value transferred or received.
A.
The value of anything transferred or received in breach of the ethical standards of this article VIII by a county employee,
elected official
or a non-employee may be recovered from such parties. Recovery from one offending party shall not preclude recovery from other offending parties.
B.
Upon a showing that a kickback occurred, it shall be conclusively presumed that kickback was included in the price of the subcontract and ultimately borne by the county; the amount will, therefore, be recoverable by the county from the recipient. In addition, the amount may also be recovered from the subcontractor paying the kickback. Recovery from one offending party shall not preclude recovery from other offending parties.
C.
The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall be set forth in every
standard
and
simplified purchase
contract
and
solicitation
package.
II.
Supplemental remedies - employees
. In addition to any other remedies available under the law for breach of the standards of this code, the county may impose any one or more of the following employment consequences on county employees who violate the standards set forth in this:
A.
Oral or written warnings or reprimands;
B.
Suspension with or without pay for a specified period; and
C.
Termination of employment.
III.
Supplemental remedies – non-employees
. In addition to existing remedies for breach of the standards of this
code
, the county may impose any one or more of the following consequences on non-employees:
A.
Written warnings or reprimands;
B.
Termination of transactions; or
C.
Debarment or suspension from being a
contractor
or subcontractor under a county
contract
for a specified period.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-89, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021