Chapter 90 OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Res. No. 2008-33, § 1(Exh. A), adopted November 17, 2008, amended chapter 90 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 90 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from LPLUS, § 8.1.1—8.1.5.b, 8.1.6.a—f., 8.1.7—8.1.10, 8.1.12, 8.1.14.a—g., 8.2.1—8.2.6, 8.3; Res. No. 1998-34, § 1, adopted October 5, 1998; Res. No. 1999-9, § 2, adopted February 22, 1999; Res. No. 2001-33, adopted August 27, 2001; Res. No. 2004-20, § 1, 2, adopted June 28, 2004; Res. No. 2004-35, §§ 1—10, adopted December 20, 2004, and Res. No. 2008-30, §§ 1, 2, adopted November 12, 2008.
Cross reference—
Buildings
and building regulations, chapter
18
; public places, ch
apter
38
;
development
standards and specifications,
chapter
74
;
floods
, ch
apter
78
; land
use
regulations for public property,
ch
apter
94
;
subdivisions
,
ch
apter
102; zoning,
ch
apter
106.
Sec. 90-16 Annual reporting requirements
Every operator who commences operation or initiates production at an
OGL
or
OGF
within the county after the effective date of this new chapter 90, shall submit an operator’s report required by this section within ninety (90) days after assuming responsibility for an existing OGL or OGF or receiving county approval for a new OGL or OGF.  If the information for an existing OGL or existing OGF is available in a current annual report filed by another operator, the new operator may reference the relevant information in the prior annual report but shall provide a letter addendum setting forth all information that has changed since the filing of the referenced annual report.  All operators of an existing OGL or OGF as of the effective date of this new chapter 90 shall file an initial annual report required by this section within thirty (30) days after the effective date. Thereafter, all operators of OGLs or OGFs doing business in the county shall file an annual report on or before April 30 of each year.
The annual report shall contain a certification from the operator’s chief executive officer or other authorized local representative that all information contained in the annual report is true to the best of their knowledge and that the report is made in
good faith
.  If requested, the permit holder shall cooperate fully with the county during any verification process, including access to supporting documentation regarding the nature and status of any information in the annual report.
If an operator believes any of the information to be provided in the annual report is confidential, such information shall be handled as described in ECMC Rule 223 with determinations being made under this section by the director. The report shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information for all OGLs and OGFs, unless plugged and abandoned, that are owned or operated by the operator in the unincorporated portions of the county:
I.
Contact information.
Identification of the operator’s preferred mailing address, email address(es), and phone number(s) for receiving communications from the county.
II.
Proof of taxes paid, good standing and insurance.
A.
A current statement of taxes due issued by the La Plata County Treasurer reflecting that as of the date of the statement, the real property taxes assessed against all producing oil and gas leaseholds and lands and pipelines owned or operated by the operator and the personal property taxes assessed against the OGF are free and clear of all county taxes currently due and any tax liens arising therefrom have been paid in full, except for taxes for which protests or appeals have been duly filed in accordance with law, in which case proof of such timely protest or appeal shall be provided.
B.
A current certificate of good standing issued by the Colorado Secretary of State no more than thirty (30) days prior to submission of the annual report demonstrating compliance with all state filing requirements.
C.
A current certificate of insurance for the policies required by section 90-15.
III.
List of OGFs and OGLs.
A list of all OGFs and OGLs, their associated permit number and location that the operator operated as of December 31 of the prior calendar year, the OGF’s and OGL’s corresponding county financial assurance instrument including, but not limited to, the date and amount of the instrument and the financial institution or surety issuing it and the status of each OGF and OGL on that date.
IV.
Transfer of operatorship.
A list of all transactions in the unincorporated areas of the county subject to ECMC Form 9 or Form 12 relating to transactions where there has been a transfer of operatorship.
V.
Disclosure of emergency situations.
Full disclosure of any emergency situation that occurred during the current reporting period, the outcome of the situation, the cause of any delay in reporting the situation to the ECMC and the surface owner, if any, and remedial steps taken or ongoing to address the emergency and the cause of the delay in completing the remediation, if any.
VI.
Leak detection and repair.
Certification that the operator is compliant with all applicable state, tribal, and/or federally mandated integrity testing plans or, if not compliant, disclosure and explanation of the reasons for such non-compliance.
VII.
Tests and surveys.
A list of all tests and surveys required by the ECMC director under ECMC Rule 209 to protect and minimize
adverse impacts
to public health, safety, welfare, the environment and wildlife resources.  To the extent such tests and surveys are not available on the ECMC website, digital copies of such tests and surveys shall be submitted with the annual report.
VIII.
Domestic taps.
A list of all existing domestic taps that are known, or could be known with reasonable diligence, by the operator and a list of those abandoned during the current reporting period served by an operator’s OGF.  The list shall set forth the street address of the building served by the domestic tap.
IX.
Best management practices.
Demonstration of regular inspections by the operator (at least annually, but operator should indicate if the inspections are more frequent) of its OGL and OGF to ensure implementation and ongoing effectiveness of those best management practices identified in the permit or any permit issued by the
ECMC
,
CDPHE
,
AQCC
,
SUIT/CEC
,
CPW
or
EPA
and for wildfire mitigation.
X.
Updated/new emergency response plan.
An updated emergency response plan as required by paragraph 90-10.VII.B.  If the emergency response plan on file with the county remains unchanged, certification that such plan remains accurate and complete as of the date of the annual report.
XI.
Annual report of county road maintenance fees paid, if any.
A list of road maintenance fees paid, if any, pursuant to paragraph 90-10.V.C and the county road(s) or area to which the fee corresponds.
XII.
Annual forecast of planned activity at each OGL.
To the best of the operator’s knowledge following commercially reasonable efforts to plan for the upcoming year, a summary of planned operations and an operational timeline of major planned operations at all of operator’s OGLs within the unincorporated areas of the county for the coming year, including a proposed timeline of any new permitting activities and the county roads to be accessed and general proposed travel or haul routes.
(
Res. No.
2023-11
, §  04/26/2023
)
Effective on: 8/1/2023