Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE I – INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 20-4 Introduction to public procurement
Procurement
in the public sector is the process through which a government acquires
goods
and
services
. The terms “procurement” and “purchasing” are often used interchangeably. However, strictly speaking, “purchasing” is only one of three stages of the public procurement cycle.
The three (3) stages of public procurement are:
I.
Planning and scheduling.
This stage includes defining the need, developing the means and methods to meet the need, including the method of source selection, assessing risks, and ensuring proper allocation of resources.
II.
Purchasing and source selection.
This stage represents the process through which qualified providers of goods and services are identified,
solicited
, evaluated, and ultimately selected. The method of source selection, dictated by the amount of the expenditure, is determined in the planning and scheduling stage.
III.
Contract formation and administration.
This stage includes confirmation of expected performance measures, finalization of terms and conditions, and signature of authorized parties. This stage also includes post-
award
compliance with and enforcement of the terms of the resulting
contract
, including payment of invoices and adherence to insurance, amendment and renewal requirements through contract completion.
The appropriate procurement process to be followed in any given circumstance is dependent upon a variety of factors. A conceptual framework for determining the appropriate process is summarized as follows:
1
. Nature of purchase.
The nature of the purchase dictates: (a) whether public competition is required, and (b) whether additional approvals are required.
2.
Amount spent.
The amount to be spent dictates: (a) who has the authority to make the purchase, (b) what kind of competitive solicitation, if any, is required, and (c) who has the authority to sign the contract.
3.
Memorialization
. Every purchase and sale, regardless of type or amount, must be memorialized in a written document that identifies the rights and obligations of both the
buyer
and the seller.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-4, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021