Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 40. LA PLATA COUNTY PUBLIC HEALTH BOARD OF HEALTH
Sec. 2-702. La Plata County Public Health Board of Health
I.
Established.
There is hereby established the La Plata County Public Health Board of Health
(the “LPCPH BoH” or “BoH”)
.
II.
Membership, qualifications and terms.
After January 1, 2024, the LPCPH BoH shall be comprised of five (5) members appointed by the
board
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the current members shall be allowed to serve the remainder of their appointed terms. A reduction in size of the LPCPH BoH shall occur through natural attrition or vacancies, due to other causes. If a vacancy occurs due to a cause other than natural attrition and the size of the LPCPH BoH is greater than five (5), then no successor shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term.
A.
Qualifications and terms of office of members.
1.
Qualifications
. Each member of the LPCPH BoH shall be a resident of La Plata
County
and shall have reached the age of 18 years on the effective date of their appointment.
2.
Background, education or experience.
Each member should have a demonstrated background, education, or experience in
finance, public administration, public governance, or a public health discipline such as environmental health, health education, epidemiology, social and behavioral health, biostatistics, or public health administration
public administration, public governance, or a public health discipline such as environmental health, health education, epidemiology, social and behavioral health, biostatistics, or public health administration.
3.
Terms
. The initial term of office for members shall be staggered with each position serving a five-year term thereafter. A member may be reappointed for successive terms. Unless removed by the board as permitted by law or instances where the size of the BoH exceeds five (5) members, a member shall hold office until a successor has been appointed.  The initial board of health shall be appointed by the board and shall have initial staggered terms.
4.
Removal and filling of vacancies
.
LPCPH BoH members may be removed by the board as permitted by law. The effective date of such removal shall be determined by the board. Except as described in section 2-702.II, vacancies other than by reason of expiration of terms shall be filled by the board for the unexpired term.
B.
Compensation. NO L
PCPH BoH member shall receive compensation for services, but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in the discharge of their duties.
C.
Financial interest of committee members.
1.
No LPCPH BoH member nor any immediate member of the family of any such member shall acquire any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any project/program or in any property or concession associated with the LPCPH BoH, nor shall they have any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or proposed contract for materials or services to be furnished or used in connection with LPCPH; provided, however, no LPCPH BoH member shall be precluded from receiving services on the same terms and conditions as any citizen.
2.
If any LPCPH BoH member owns or controls a financial interest, direct or indirect, in any property or in any concession, contract or proposed contract for materials or services associated with LPCPH, he or she shall immediately disclose the same in writing to the board, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the BoH. Upon such disclosure, such member shall recuse himself or herself and shall not participate in any action by the LPCPH BoH affecting the project, property, concession, or contract unless the board determines that, in the light of and notwithstanding such personal interest, the participation of such member would not be contrary to the public interest. Acquisition or retention of any such interest without disclosure to the board or participation with respect to a project, property, concession, or contract without a determination by the board that such participation is not contrary to the public interest shall constitute misconduct in office.
III.
Meetings and records.
A.
Officers and bylaws. The LPCPH BoH shall elect a president from its members, whose term shall be for one (1) calendar year. The LPCPH BoH may create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary. The LPCPH BoH shall be empowered to adopt and amend bylaws governing its procedures as it may consider necessary or advisable. Such bylaws shall be consistent with this code.
B.
Meetings and records of proceedings.
All meetings of three or more members of the
LPCPH BoH
at which any public business is discussed or at which any formal action may be taken are public meetings. Meetings of the
LPCPH BoH
shall be open to the public and conducted in accordance with the Colorado Open Meetings Law, C.R.S. § 24-6-401,
et seq
.
and records of its proceedings shall be kept and open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the Colorado Open Records Act, C.R.S. § 24-72-201,
et seq
. Notices and agendas of public meetings of the
LPCPH BoH
shall be posted at the legal posting locations for the
county
. The
LPCPH BoH
shall meet as often as necessary to fulfill its responsibilities but no less than once per month until December 31, 2023. Following LPCPH BoH gaining jurisdiction over the county’s public health services on or about January 1, 2024, the BoH shall conduct regular meetings at least once every three months at such times as may be established by a resolution of the LPCPH BoH.  Special meetings of the BoH may be called by the president, the public health director, or by a majority of the members of the board at any time on three days’ prior notice; except that, in case of emergency, twenty-four hours’ notice shall be sufficient.
C.
Quorum. Except as may be otherwise provided by statute, a simple majority of the then current members of the LPCPH BoH shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the BoH at any meeting. If a quorum is present, the decision of one (1) or more members of the LPCPH BoH to abstain from voting thereon shall not be deemed to constitute less than a quorum for the transaction of business. Action of the LPCPH BoH shall be by majority vote of those entitled to vote. Abstention shall not be counted as votes for the purpose of determining a majority. Regardless of attendance at any given meeting, if the total number of appointed LPCPH BoH members consists of an even number and there is a tie vote on any matter, the decision item may be postponed to a later date if a majority of those members in attendance agree to the delay. Otherwise, the chair of presiding member's vote shall serve as the tie-breaking vote. If the total number of appointed LPCPH BoH members is an odd number, a tie vote constitutes a denial of the proposed action by the LPCPH BoH.
IV.
General responsibilities and function of the LPCPH BoH before January 1, 2024
. The LPCPH BoH shall act in an advisory capacity to the board in all matters relating to the LPCPH and shall have the following organizational powers and duties relative to LPCPH, to be exercised in a manner consistent with the board’s policies and procedures:
A.
Advise the board on the hiring of a public health director (or an interim public health director) and medical officer(s) possessing such minimum qualifications as may be prescribed by the state board of health.
B.
Recommend a budget for county fiscal year 2024;
C.
Develop and promote the public policies needed to secure the conditions necessary for a healthy community;
D.
Coordinate with BoCC to secure employees, property, contracts and leases as may be necessary to operate LPCPH beginning on January 1, 2024; and
E.
Perform any such other and further duties and responsibilities consistent with the purposes of LPCPH as may be requested or assigned by the board.
For further clarification, the LPCPH BoH will not have jurisdiction to enforce any public health laws and rules and will operate in an organizational capacity prior to December 31, 2023.
V.
General responsibilities and functions of the LPCPH BoH beginning January 1, 2024.
Following the formal dissolution of San Juan Basin Public Health on December 31, 2023, the LPCPH BoH will have the following powers and duties indefinitely beginning on January 1, 2024:
A.
To develop and promote the public policies needed to secure the conditions necessary for a healthy community;
B.
To approve the local public health plan completed by the county, and submit the local plan to the state board for review;
C.
To select a public health director. The public health director shall possess such minimum qualifications as may be prescribed by the state board of health;
D.
In the event of a vacancy in the position of public health director or medical officer, to either employ or contract with a person deemed qualified to fill the position or to request temporary assistance from a public health director or a medical officer from another county;
E.
To provide, equip, and maintain suitable offices and all necessary facilities for the proper administration and provision of core public health services, as defined by the state board of health;
F.
To determine general policies to be followed by the public health director in administering and enforcing public health laws, orders, and rules of the county board, and orders, rules, and standards of the state board of health;
G.
To issue orders and to adopt rules not inconsistent with the public health laws of this state nor with the orders or rules of the state board as the county board may deem necessary for the proper exercise of the powers and duties vested in or imposed upon an agency or county board;
H.
To act in an advisory capacity to the public health director on all matters pertaining to public health;
I.
To hold hearings, administer oaths, subpoena witnesses, and take testimony in all matters relating to the exercise and performance of the powers and duties vested in or imposed upon the LPCPH BoH;
J.
To provide environmental health services and to assess fees to offset the actual, direct cost of such services;
K.
To perform any such other duties and responsibilities required by law, included but not limited to C.R.S. § 25-1-506
et. seq
.;
L.
To attend joint meetings as required by the board to discuss public health issues; and
M.
To comply with policies and procedures promulgated by the board to the fullest extent permitted by law.
VI.
Severability.
If any provision of these regulations is found to be invalid, the remaining provisions of the regulations shall continue in full force and effect.
(
Res. No. 2023-09, § 2-702, 01/24/2023; Res. No. 2023-14, § 2-702, 05/09/2023
)
Effective on: 5/9/2023