Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 1: Fire Impact Fee for Durango Fire Protection District
Sec. 44-8 Deposit of Impact Fees into a Restricted Account
I.
Establishment of accounts.
Impact fee funds collected shall be deposited in an interest-bearing account which clearly identifies the purpose for which the fee was imposed.  All interest earned or money deposited to the account shall be credited to and shall be considered funds of the account. The county and district shall establish appropriate accounting procedures and controls to ensure that the impact fee funds are properly deposited, accounted for and appropriated in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and other legal requirements applicable to impact fees.
II.
Appropriation of impact fee funds; restrictions
.
A.
Impact fee funds may only be appropriated for capital facilities identified in the district capital improvement plan as amended in updates to the district impact fee study, or for the payment of principal, interest and other financing costs on contracts, bonds, notes or other obligations issued by or on behalf of the district to finance such costs for such capital facilities.
B.
The district may enter an agreement with the City of Durango to use impact fees collected from new development in the unincorporated areas of La Plata County to fund, wholly or partially, eligible major capital facilities identified in the district capital improvement plan and located within the City of Durango.
C.
Impact fees shall be appropriated and contractually committed for expenditure by the district within ten (10) years of the beginning of the calendar year immediately succeeding the date of impact fee collection, unless such period is extended. Upon request of the district, an extension may be approved by the county if the appropriation is for a capital facility improvement listed in the district capital improvement plan that requires more than ten (10) years to plan, design and construct and the demand for such capital facility improvement is generated in whole or in part by the new development or will serve the development.  Impact fee funds will be deemed to be appropriated in the order they were received.
D.
Impact fees may not be appropriated or used for personnel, operations, maintenance or repair of capital facilities.
(
Res. No.
2022-19
, § 44-8, 10/11/2022
)
Effective on: 10/11/2022