Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-35 Standard purchases
A
standard purchase
is any purchase with a
contract
requirement of more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The amount of a purchase cannot be divided to avoid being classified as a standard purchase.
I.
General rule.
All standard purchases must be procured competitively through the appropriate
solicitation
process, unless otherwise exempt from competitive solicitation pursuant to section 20-36. Standard purchases require:
A.
Budget.
Only those purchases that are authorized in an approved
budget
will be procured. If the expenditure is not reflected in the current budget, procurement planning should incorporate the additional time required to obtain a budget supplement.
B.
Authorization.
Department heads and
elected officials
are authorized to initiate standard purchases when the amount to be spent is within an approved budget and any approvals required by section 20-27 have been obtained.
C.
Initiation of a standard purchase - specifications or scope of work.
A standard purchase is initiated when a department or elected official prepares written specifications or a written
scope of work
and attaches it to a
purchase requisition
, along with all the other information required to complete a purchase requisition.
D.
Solicitation standard.
Based upon the information contained in the purchase requisition, and in collaboration with the department or elected official, the contract manager will identify the appropriate competitive solicitation method and contract terms and will plan, schedule, and execute the solicitation.
E.
Contract award.
Once a
qualified vendor
has been selected, the contract manager and requesting department or elected official will negotiate a final contract document in consultation with the county attorney’s office, as required under section 20-26. All requisite attachments and
vendor
signatures will be obtained and the proposed contract will be presented to the
BOCC
or authorized delegate for approval and execution in accordance with the county’s Fiscal Management Policy No. III.4, as amended.
F.
Payment processing.
Upon approval of a standard purchase contract, the contract manager will attach the contract documents to the existing purchase requisition and assign a
purchase order number
to encumber the contract funds from the appropriate budget line item. Invoices thereafter received by the department or elected official will be submitted to the finance department in accordance with the county’s adopted fiscal management policies and procedures.
G.
Centralized documentation and
contract management
.
The contract manager is responsible for maintaining a complete contract file and all required documentation on all standard purchases.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-35, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021