chapter 64 long range planning tools
Sec. 64-3 District plans
I.
Purpose of district plans.
A.
District plans
are intended to provide more detailed guidelines and specific direction for individual planning districts than is contained in the
comprehensive plan
. District plans recognize that each planning district has a distinct character. Such district plans shall apply to the entire area within the planning district and may address those issues as set forth in this section. Like the comprehensive plan, district plans shall be advisory in nature.
B.
District plans are intended to set more specific development guidelines and direction or otherwise may create a higher degree of specificity on the development of property. District plans shall not be deemed to be in direct or indirect conflict with the comprehensive plan merely because they may recommend more specific conditions or limitations on development, including density.
II.
Contents of district plans.
District plans may include the following issues unique to the area, at the discretion of the
planning commission
:
A.
Goals, policies and actions related to area specific issues that are not already addressed in the comprehensive plan.
B.
District maps or other demonstrative materials.
C.
Implementation strategies to enact the goals, policies and actions set forth in the comprehensive plan.
D.
Unique or specific quasi-public facility, institutional use or infrastructure issues.
E.
Identification of appropriate locations for a diversity of employee or affordable housing and permanent resident housing types.
F.
Identification of needs and appropriate locations for different types of dispersed and developed recreational uses or new recreational facilities.
G.
Infill, redevelopment, rehabilitation or adaptive reuse of properties.
H.
Within the context of the content of the comprehensive plan and C.R.S. § 30-28-106, any other considerations related to issues of development or growth in the relevant planning district.
III.
Contents not to be included in district plans.
District plans typically should not include the following:
A.
Goals, policies and actions that address issues that are countywide (and not planning district specific) in nature and are similar in intent to goals, policies and actions already addressed in the comprehensive plan. This limitation shall be interpreted narrowly to only address policies that are directly redundant with the comprehensive plan.
B.
Goals, objectives or policies that can only be interpreted to unavoidably and directly conflict with the comprehensive plan. If the comprehensive plan and a district plan can reasonably be construed to be consistent, that interpretation is favored. Where there exists a conflict or overlap between provisions, the provisions of the comprehensive plan shall prevail. District plan policies that serve to set more specific development guidelines, which may include a higher degree of specificity on the development of property, including the density related thereto, shall not be considered to directly conflict.
IV.
Adoption and amendment of district plans.
Adoption of, and amendments to, district plans shall be subject to the same procedures and criteria in section 64-1-governing the comprehensive plan; provided, however that prior to the public hearing on consideration of adoption of, or an amendment to, a district plan, a
RDAC
for the district, if any, shall have the opportunity to make recommendations to the
PC
on the content of the district plan and provide comment on the findings necessary for amendment of the district plan.
V.
Updates to district plans.
District plans adopted by the PC shall be updated by the PC on a periodic basis. The PC shall determine if revisions are needed because of changing conditions or circumstances, or modifications in the county's overall development policies or the policies within the planning district. Amendments or re-adoption of a district plan as a result of an update shall be processed in the same manner as any adoption of, or amendment to, a district plan according to this chapter. The failure to adopt or to re-adopt a district plan shall not affect the validity of previously adopted plans.
VI.
Use of district plans.
A.
As with the comprehensive plan, the board does not intend to codify the district plans, or any portions thereof. It is the intent of the board that development proposals consider the advisory goals and policies contained in any applicable district plan.
B.
A determination of general conformance with the applicable district plan should be made by the decision-making body for any land use permit application in light of the facts and circumstances, evidence and considerations present in relation to that particular application. In this regard, a finding of general conformance with an applicable district plan shall be based on a quasi-judicial weighting and balancing of various goals and policies in the district plan and code. The decision-making body shall exercise its discretion based upon the factual considerations pertaining to the application.
C.
In reviewing a proposal, a wide array of community issues, goals, objectives and policies, as reflected in the applicable district plan, may be considered or implicated. Thus, determining the proper balance to various district plan goals and polices, and the attribution of weight to such goals and policies for any particular proposal, is essential in determining if general conformity is achieved for that proposal. It is within the sound discretion of the decision-making body in this process to consider all such concerns, goals and policies in relation to the application, in its entirety, and to give each the weight it deserves based upon the circumstances presented to the decision-making body. Therefore, the decision-making body may determine the proper balance of impacts, goals and policies in ascertaining if proper conformity with such district plan, in general, is desirable or has been attained.
D.
In rendering a decision on a proposal, the decision-making body should reference relevant portions of the district plan considered. Such district plan provisions should support the basis for the decision-making body’s reasoning and decision regarding the proposal, particularly in relation to a determination on general conformity with the applicable district plan.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 64-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020