Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE III – THE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCESS; ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF GOODS AND SERVICES
This article III sets forth how
vendors
are to be identified and solicited and how personal property will be disposed of by the county.  Generally, all county purchases and
contracts
shall be procured competitively, unless otherwise set forth in this
code
.
Both applicable law and the
BOCC
recognize, however, that it is not always in the
county’s best interest
to expend the time and resources required to make a
standard purchase
. As a result, certain exceptions based upon the nature and amount of the purchase are recognized. Whenever an exception is used to identify and select a
vendor
, the appropriate contract file should reflect the exception utilized and how it applied to the specific circumstance.
Regardless of the way the vendor is selected and regardless of the amount of the purchase, a contract with that vendor is required (see article VI).
Sec. 20-34 Simplified purchases
A
simplified purchase
is any purchase with a
contract
requirement of between ten thousand one dollars ($10,001.00) and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The amount of a purchase cannot be divided to avoid being classified as a simplified purchase or a
standard purchase
.
I.
General rule
. Unless otherwise exempt from competitive
solicitation
pursuant to section 20-36, all simplified purchases must be
procured
either: (1) competitively through the
documented quote
process, or (2) by choosing a
qualified vendor
from the county’s current
on-call list
, as applicable. All simplified purchases must meet the following criteria:
A.
Budget.
Only those purchases that are authorized in an approved
budget
will be procured.
B.
Authorization
. Department heads and elected officials are authorized to request simplified purchases when the amount to be spent is within an approved budget, the provisions of this section are followed and any approvals required by section 20-27 have been obtained.
C.
Initiation of simplified purchase - scope of work or specifications.
A simplified purchase is initiated when a department or
elected official
prepares written
specifications
or a written
scope of work
or
service
(defined in article IV).
D.
Solicitation standard
. All simplified purchases are made directly by the procurement division either by: (1) notifying at least three (3) qualified vendors of the work or service specifications and essential contract terms; reviewing the responses received within the time specified; and selecting the
vendor
who best meets the selection criteria, or (2) selecting a qualified vendor from the county’s current on-call list who best meets the selection criteria.
E.
Documented quote
. When the documented quote process is used, vendors may be notified of the specifications and terms and conditions by letter, email, telephone or in person; however, the method of contact must be documented, and steps must be taken to ensure that each vendor received the same information so that all responses are based upon equivalent information.
A documented quote is a written description of the actions undertaken to meet the
solicitation
standard and will be completed by procurement for each simplified purchase in which the process is used. Invoices will not be approved for payment in the absence of a documented quote or justification for use of the on-call list that includes the following:
1.
A copy of the scope of work;
2.
The names and addresses of each vendor to whom information was provided when the documented quote process is used;
3.
A copy (or summary if communicated verbally) of each
vendor
response received when the documented quote process is used; and
4.
The reason(s) the successful bidder was selected.
F.
Contract award
. The procurement division shall negotiate the final contract with the selected vendor in consultation with the county attorney’s office, as required under section 20-26, and shall obtain all required attachments. Contracts may be executed by the individual(s) delegated signature authority in accordance with the county’s Fiscal Management Policy No. III.4, as amended.
G.
Commencement of work
. No work shall be performed until the contract, and all appropriate attachments, are signed by all parties.
H.
Payment processing
. Upon receipt of a completed
purchase requisition
, the procurement division will assign a
purchase order number
to encumber the contract funds from the appropriate budget line item. Invoices thereafter received will be paid when submitted to the finance department in accordance with the county’s adopted fiscal management policies and procedures.
No invoice can be paid without a purchase order number; no purchase order number can be assigned without a completed purchase requisition.
I.
Centralized documentation and contract
. The contract manager is responsible for maintaining a complete contract file and all required documentation on all simplified purchases.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-34, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021