Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE V METHODS OF COMPETITIVE SOURCE SELECTION FOR STANDARD PURCHASES
This article describes the appropriate methods of competitive source selection for
standard purchases
(i.e., purchases with a contract requirement of more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Generally, while
IFBs
or
RFPs
will be used, the
contract manager
in consultation with the finance director, may also determine that an
RFI
,
RFQ
or other tools should also be utilized. When such tools are used, the procurement division will outline the process to be used, in writing, prior to letting a
solicitation
. The provisions of this article do not apply to the source selection methods applicable to
small purchases
or
simplified purchases
.
Sec. 20-54   Unsolicited proposals and vendor shows
An
unsolicited proposal
is an
offer
made by a third party to sell
goods
or
services
to the county that has not been solicited or published by the county.
I.
General rule
. An offer to sell a good or service to the county in the absence of a county defined need,
SoW,
public notice or appropriate source selection must be properly evaluated before further action. Proper evaluation includes the following:
A.
All unsolicited proposal to sell goods or services to the county, regardless of who they are initially directed to, including the
BOCC
, shall be forwarded to the procurement division.
B.
The procurement division will make an initial evaluation of the offer and will either reject the offer or will forward the offer to an appropriate department head or
elected official
to determine: (1) if the offer meets a county need or provides a benefit that serves the
best interest of the county
; and (2) whether there are sufficient resources, including an appropriate
budget
, to make and manage the purchase.
C.
If the procurement division and department head or elected official decide to pursue the offer, they must then determine if the offer qualifies for a
sole source justification
, defined in article III above.
1.
If so, the unsolicited proposal may be accepted by complying with the
sole source purchase
process and standards.
2.
If the offer does not qualify for a sole source justification but the opportunity is deemed to be worth exploring, then article III will dictate the way the opportunity is to be sourced and
awarded
. Before solicitation, the original
proposal
should be rejected and the pending opportunity to submit a new proposal explained. In this instance, the party who submitted the unsolicited proposal would be required to submit a new responsive proposal and would be evaluated in the same manner as any other
bidder
or offeror.
II.
Vendor shows
.
Vendor
shows, which include open houses, product exhibits or product demonstrations, must be approved in advance by Procurement in order to protect the integrity of the
procurement process
, viability of current
agreements
, and ensure fairness to all potential vendors. A product demonstration of a good already contracted for is not a vendor show. The finance director will have final authority to determine what constitutes a vendor show.
(
Res. No. 2020-42, § 20-54, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021