Chapter 10 ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Predatory
animal
control
committee, § 2-566 et seq.;
undesirable plant
and
rodent
advisory commission
, § 2-646 et seq.
State Law reference—
Dumping
dead animals
, C.R.S. § 25-1-612
Division 3. Offenses and Enforcement
Sec. 10-30 Offenses
Rabies Vaccination
.
Owners
shall
be liable for failure to vaccinate their
dogs
and
cats
as
required
by Section 10-20 or in misusing or transferring certifications for such vaccinated
animals
.
Licensing.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to fail to
license
the dog and/or display license tags as required by Section 10-21.
Guard Dog
.  It is unlawful to, and no
person
shall, own or harbor a guard dog in La Plata
County
, except as provided in these regulations.
Registration.  Guard dogs must be registered annually with the
designated facility
listed in Section 10-11 by paying the registration fee set forth in Section 10-50.  The following information must be provided to the
facility
at the time of registration:
Owner’s name, home address and telephone numbers; and
Dog’s name, age, sex, breed and physical description; and
The name, address and telephone numbers for an alternative person to contact regarding the dog in the owner’s absence; and
Current license information, as required by Section 10-21; and
A description of any training given to the dog, including a list and description of commands known by the dog.
Confinement and Warning.
Warning signs must be conspicuously posted around the property and enclosure where the guard dog is kept indicating the presence of a guard dog.  Such signs shall display the words “Guard Dog” in letters four (4) or more inches tall, display an image of a guard dog easily understandable to children and display a telephone number where a person responsible for
control
of the guard dog
may
be reached at all times, twenty-four (24) hours per day.
At all times, a guard dog must be confined in an enclosed area adequate to ensure that it will not escape, or it must be under the immediate command and/or
physical restraint
of its owner or handler.
Impoundment.  If an
animal control officer
has probable cause to believe that any guard dog is not being confined or controlled as required by this section, the animal may be seized and impounded.
Animal At-large
.  It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to
permit
such animal to run, or be, at-large.
Impounding.  Any dog found running at-large may be restrained by an animal control officer or any other person and impounded at the County’s designated
animal shelter
.
Nuisance Barking
.  Nuisance barking is prohibited.  It is unlawful to keep a dog that disturbs its neighbors by making loud, habitual and persistent barking, howling, yelping or whining noises.  By definition, barking, howling, yelping or whining noises that last for a continuous twenty (20) minutes are a
per se
nuisance under these regulations; however, loud, habitual and persistent barking, howling, yelping or whining noises that last for less than 20 minutes also constitute nuisance barking if such noises disturb the peace of a reasonable person.
Warning Notices.  An animal control officer may issue a written warning to a dog owner after receiving a complaint from one (1) neighbor who signs a written statement attesting to nuisance barking.  The owner will have ten (10) days after the warning is issued to correct the problem before a citation or summons and complaint can be issued.  The warning shall cite this section, shall state that a complaint has been received, that the owner’s dog is disturbing the peace of another, and shall identify the date and time of the disturbance and the dog(s) accused of nuisance barking.  A warning shall be considered given if it is personally served to the owner, posted on the owner’s
premises
or mailed by certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid and addressed to the dog owner.  Warning notices so served shall constitute notice to all members of the premises.
Citation or Summons and Complaint.  After the ten (10) day grace period and within six (6) months after the issuance of a warning, a citation or summons and complaint may be issued to a dog owner for subsequent nuisance barking, pursuant to Section 10-32 below.  No person shall be cited or charged with a
violation
of this section unless one (1) neighbor/complainant signs a written statement attesting to the nuisance barking and verifying the allegations of the complaint.  As set forth in Section 10-10(XXIV) above, owners of vacant land are not considered neighbors for purposes of these regulations and are not eligible to make a complaint.
In all cases, demonstrative evidence, such as unaltered digital and/or video recordings, is recommended from the complainants.  As part of the written statement(s) signed by complainant(s), complainant(s) must provide the property address where the dog(s) is/are located, description of the dog(s), and date and duration of the alleged violation.  Anonymous complaints will not be accepted for issuance of a warning, citation or summons and complaint.
If a second or subsequent offense of this section is charged within six (6) months of the issuance of the first citation or summons and complaint for nuisance barking, whether or not the dog is the same, a citation or summons and complaint may be issued without first issuing a warning notice.
Defense.
Provocation
of a dog is an affirmative defense to any charge of nuisance barking under these regulations.
Exemptions.
Working dogs
engaged in the activities defined in Section 10-10(XXXVII), permitted facilities (as defined in these regulations) and veterinary hospitals that comply with applicable land
use
and licensing regulations are exempt from provisions related to nuisance barking.  Guard dogs are not exempt from provisions related to nuisance barking.
Cruelty to Animals
.
Cruelty to animals, as defined herein, is a failure to properly control and supervise such animal(s). It is unlawful for any owner of a
pet animal
, including
livestock
, to commit cruelty to animals, as such
action
fails to provide such animal(s) with proper supervision, safe confinement and necessary care.
Impoundment.  If an animal control officer has probable cause to believe that any pet animal or livestock is abandoned, neglected, mistreated or has otherwise been subject to cruelty to animals, the animal may be seized and impounded.
Vicious/Dangerous
Animal.
It is unlawful to, and no person shall, own or harbor a
vicious animal
or dangerous animal within La Plata County, except as provided in these regulations.
Registration.  A vicious animal or dangerous animal must be registered annually with the designated facility listed in Section 10-11 by paying the registration fee set forth in Section 10-50.  The following information must be provided to the facility at the time of registration:
Owner’s name, home address and telephone numbers; and
Animal’s name, age, sex, species, breed and physical description; and
The name, address and telephone numbers for an alternative person to contact regarding the animal in the owner’s absence; and
A copy of the court order finding the animal to be vicious or dangerous and any subsequent orders expanding, modifying or amending the original finding; and
As applicable, current license information, as required by Section 10-21.
Confinement.  It is unlawful to keep any animal that has been found by a court to be a vicious animal or dangerous animal unless such animal is confined in a manner to protect the
public
as follows:
When outside the owner’s primary residence, the animal must be confined in a kennel, run or pen approved by La Plata County animal control officers or must be on a leash no longer than four (4) feet and under the direct control of a person at least eighteen (18) year of age; and
When outside the owner’s primary residence, the animal must be confined in such a manner as complies with any additional safety restrictions ordered by the court that found the animal vicious or dangerous, unless amended by a court in our
jurisdiction
.
Impoundment/Destruction.  If an animal control officer has probable cause to believe that a pet animal is a vicious animal or dangerous animal, or if any animal found to be a vicious animal or dangerous animal by a court is confined in violation of this section, such animal may be seized and impounded.   If impoundment cannot be accomplished safely, animal control officers are authorized to take appropriate measures, including destruction of the animal involved, to prevent death or
bodily injury
to the officer, other persons,
domestic animals
or
wildlife
by vicious animals, dangerous animals or animals with rabies.
Defense.  Provocation of an animal is an affirmative defense to any charge of owning or harboring a vicious animal or dangerous animal under these regulations.
Provocation.
It is unlawful for any person to provoke, or engage in provocation of, a pet animal, including livestock.
Habitual Offender
.
Habitual violations of these regulations are prohibited.  It is a separate offense for an owner of any pet animal, including livestock, to be convicted of violating these regulations three (3) or more times during any consecutive eighteen (18) month period.
Interference with Animal Control Officer.
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, prevent or obstruct an animal control officer in the performance of his or her duties under these regulations.
Effective on: 1/17/2017