Chapter 69 AREAS AND ACTIVITIES OF STATE INTEREST
Sec. 69-5 Statutory and Specific Exemptions
The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to any
development
in an area of state interest or any activity of state interest if any one of the following is true:
I.
As of October 1, 2019,
A.
The specific development
or activity was covered by a current
building permit
issued by the
county
; or
B.
The specific d
evelopment
or activity was directly approved by the electorate of the state or the c
ounty
,              provided that approval by the electorate of any bond issue by itself shall not be construed as approval                of  the specific development or activity; or
C.
The specific d
evelopment
or activity is on land which has been finally approved by the c
ounty
, with or              without conditions, for Planned Unit Development or land use similar to a Planned Unit Development; or
D.
The specific d
evelopment
or activity is on land which was either zoned or rezoned by the c
ounty
in                     response to an application which contemplated the specific development or activity; or
E.
The specific development
or activity is on land for which a development plan has been conditionally or             finally approved by the
c
ounty
and that development plan contemplates the specific development or                 activity.
The above listed exemptions (A-E) will be recognized and applied consistent with law, and to the extent prior approval specifically contemplated and authorized the current development
or activity without intervening changes in, around or to the development activity.
II.
Specific exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
A.
Irrigation facilities
used for agricultural purposes.
B.
Replacement of an existing
water diversion
structure
without change in the point of diversion or point of use of the water or yield from the diversion.
C.
Upgrades to existing facilities that are required maintenance or otherwise required by
f
ederal
,
s
tate
or county
regulations, including repairing or replacing old or outdated equipment, or installing new equipment or ancillary facilities, provided the improvements do not expand levels of service beyond the original design capacity and provided the improvements do not expand levels of service beyond acceptable levels of expansion as determined by the
director
or designee, and provided further that the upgrade does not alter the location of the existing facility.
D.
The specific activity is the extension of water or wastewater service into areas that received county land use approval prior to October 1, 2019 where the primary purpose of the extension is to serve such pre-existing or approved development rights.
E.
The construction or extension of a water distribution system, domestic water system,
municipal or industrial water project
,
water supply system
,
water treatment plant
or
major new domestic water treatment system
with
pipelines
that do not exceed a maximum of
twelve
(
12
)
inches in diameter.
F.
Development or activities located on unincorporated land that is an enclave within a
municipality
.
G.
Any use regulated by
Chapter 90
.
H.
Unincorporated La Plata County government.
(Res. No. 2019-023, § 69-5, 10/01/2019)
Effective on: 1/1/1901