Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 1: Fire Impact Fee for Durango Fire Protection District
Sec. 44-3 aPPLICABILITY
I.
New development.
Unless otherwise exempted pursuant to section 44-3(II), from and after the effective date of adoption of this division 1, fire impact fees shall be imposed on all new development in the unincorporated area of the county within the district service area, at the time of building permit issuance. A request for an exemption must be made in writing to the community development department and included with the county building permit application. The request for an exemption shall include any relevant supporting documentation. The community development department may request further documentation to make a determination on the request. The community development department shall state its determination in writing whether the exemption is granted or denied.  If the exemption is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided in the written determination.
II.
Exempt development.
The fire impact fees shall not be imposed on the following development:
A.
Redevelopment, reconstruction or rehabilitation for which a building permit is required when the owner or developer replaces, but does not increase, the number of dwelling units in a residential development or the gross square footage of floor area of non-residential development.
B.
If the number of dwelling units in residential redevelopment, reconstruction or rehabilitation increases, or gross square footage of enclosed floor area of non-residential development is expanded during reconstruction, rehabilitation or redevelopment, impact fees shall be calculated based on the number of increased dwelling units or additional square footage added during the expansion.
C.
Dwelling units deemed to be qualified low- or moderate-income housing or affordable employee housing units under this division 1, as evidenced through participation in one of the following affordable/attainable housing programs:
1.
The county’s revolving loan fund;
2.
The City of Durango’s Fair Share Program;
3.
Habitat for Humanity’s home construction and sale program;
4.
The USDA Rural Development Mutual Self-Help Housing Program;
5.
The federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program;
6.
The Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly program;
7.
The HUD Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program;
8.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Department of Local Affairs, Division of Local Housing;
9.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Middle-Income Housing Authority;
10.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Housing Finance Authority (CHFA) to provide affordable housing, including but not limited to affordable housing tax credits and the Middle-Income Access program (MIAP);
11.
Any existing county workforce housing program agreement;
12.
Any affordable or attainable housing program which La Plata HomesFund, the Regional Housing Alliance of La Plata County, Housing Solutions for the Southwest, or their respective successors in interest, certifies that such program has adequate procedures that limit the sales and rental costs of homes and verify the incomes of the occupants.
(
Res. No.
2022-19
, §  10/11/2022
)
Effective on: 10/11/2022