Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE V. FINANCIAL MATTERS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
county
or authorizing the issue of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness or any contract, right, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument or obligation assumed by the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(2); any appropriation ordinance or resolution saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(6); any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes, charges, rates or fees saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(7); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and
assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11); budget advisory committee, § 2-166 et seq.; lodging tax committee, § 2-461 et seq.; taxation, ch. 50; fee schedule, app. A; procurement
code
, app. B.
State Law reference—
Financial procedures, C.R.S. § 30-25-101 et seq.
DIVISION 2. INVESTMENT POLICY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Res. No. 2014-36, § 5(Exh. A), adopted October 14, 2014, amended division 2 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, division 2 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Res. No. 2012-21, § 5(Exh. A), adopted October 14, 2012, and Res. No. 2014-04, § 1, adopted January 7, 2014.
Sec. 2-766. Eligible investments and transactions.
All investments
shall
be made in accordance with the Colorado Revised Statutes: C.R.S. § 30-10-708, et seq. Treasurer - Deposit of Funds in Banks and Savings and Loan Associations; C.R.S. § 11-10.5-101, et seq. Public Deposit Protection Act; C.R.S. § 11-47-101, et seq. Savings and Loan Association Public Deposit Protection Act; C.R.S. § 24-75-601, et. seq. Funds - Legal Investments; C.R.S. § 24-75-603, et seq. Depositories; and C.R.S. § 24-75-701, et seq. Investment Funds - Local Government Pooling. Any revisions or extensions of these sections of the CRS will be assumed to be part of this investment policy immediately upon being enacted.
The treasurer has further restricted the investment of
county
funds to the following types of securities and transactions:
U.S. Treasury obligations. Treasury bills, treasury notes, treasury bonds and treasury strips with maturities not exceeding five years from the date of trade settlement.
Federal instrumentality securities. Debentures, discount notes, callable securities, step-up securities and stripped principal or coupons with maturities not exceeding five years from the date of trade settlement issued by the following only: Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Farm Credit Banks (FFCB), Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB), and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC). Subordinated debt shall not be purchased.
Corporate bonds. Bonds, notes, debentures and medium-term notes issued by corporations organized and operating within the United States.  The County hereby further authorizes investments in dollar denominated securities issued by a corporation or bank that is organized and operating outside of the United States, not to exceed a portfolio allocation of 10% per country.  The combined exposure to corporate bonds, commercial paper and eligible bankers acceptances shall not exceed 50% of the portfolio, with no more than 5% held in any one issuer.  Subordinated debt shall not be purchased.  Maximum maturities for corporate bonds shall not exceed three years from the date of trade settlement.  Such securities, at the time of purchase, must be rated at least AA- or the equivalent by at least two Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs).
Prime commercial paper issued by U.S. companies with maturities not exceeding 270 days from the date of trade settlement, and rated at least A-1 or the equivalent at the time of purchase by at least two NRSROs.  The combined exposure to corporate bonds, commercial paper and eligible bankers acceptances shall not exceed 50% of the portfolio, with no more than 5% held in any one issuer. Subordinated debt shall not be purchased.
Eligible banker's acceptances with an original maximum maturity not exceeding 180 days from the date of trade settlement, issued on domestic banks or branches of foreign banks domiciled in the U.S. and operating under U.S. banking laws. Eligible Banker’s Acceptances shall be rated A-1 or the equivalent at the time of purchase by at least two NRSROs. The combined exposure to corporate bonds, commercial paper and eligible bankers acceptances shall not exceed 50% of the portfolio, with no more than 5% held in any one issuer. Subordinated debt shall not be purchased.
General Obligations and Revenue Obligations of state or local governments with a maturity not exceeding five years from the date of trade settlement.  General Obligations and Revenue Obligations of this state or any political subdivision of this state must be rated at the time of purchase at least A- or the equivalent by at least two NRSROs.  General Obligations and Revenue Obligations of any other state or political subdivision of any other state must be rated at the time of purchase at least AA- or the equivalent by at least two NRSROs.  Exposure to General Obligations and Revenue Obligations shall not exceed 30% of the portfolio with no more than 5% held in any one issuer.
Repurchase agreements. Repurchase Agreements with a defined termination date of 180 days or less collateralized by U.S. Treasury obligations and Federal Instrumentality securities listed in items (1) and (2) above, with a maturity not exceeding ten years. For the purpose of this section, the term collateral shall mean purchased securities under the terms of the county's approved master repurchase agreement. The purchased securities shall have a minimum market value including accrued interest of 102 percent of the dollar value of the transaction. Collateral shall be held in the county's custodial bank as safekeeping
agent
, and the market value of the collateral securities shall be marked-to-the-market daily.
Repurchase agreements shall be entered into only with dealers who have executed a master repurchase agreement with the county and who are recognized as primary dealers with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Local government investment pools. Local government investment pools authorized under C.R.S. §§ 24-75-701 and 24-75-702 that:
Are "no-load" (i.e., no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares);
Have a constant net asset value of $1.00 per share;
Limit assets of the fund to those authorized by state statute;
Have a maximum stated maturity and weighted average maturity in accordance with Federal Securities Law Regulation 2a-7; and
Have a rating of AAAm or the equivalent.
Money market mutual funds. Money market mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that:
Are "no-load" (i.e. no commission or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares);
Have a constant net asset value of $1.00 per share;
Limit assets of the fund to securities authorized in this investment policy;
Have a maximum stated maturity and weighted average maturity in accordance with Federal Securities Regulation 2a-7; and
Are rated either AAAm or the equivalent.
Non-negotiable certificates of deposit. Non-negotiable certificates of deposit with a maturity not exceeding five years in any state bank, national bank, or state or federal savings bank located in Colorado that is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and is a state approved depository per C.R.S. § 24-75-603. Certificates of deposit that exceed FDIC insurance limits shall be collateralized as required by the Public Deposit Protection Act or the Savings and Loan Association Public Deposit Protection Act. In
addition
, banks issuing certificates of deposit shall meet the credit criteria set forth in the section of this investment policy, "Selection Of Banks As Depositories And as Providers Of General Banking Services."
Securities that have been downgraded below minimum ratings described herein
may
be sold or held at the county's discretion. The portfolio will be brought back into compliance with investment policy guidelines as soon as is practical.
It is the intent of the treasurer that the foregoing list of authorized securities be strictly interpreted. Any deviation from this list must be pre-approved by the treasurer in writing.
(Res. No. 2014-36, § 5(Exh. A), 10-14-2014, Res. No. 2016-10)
Effective on: 6/14/2016