Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-14 Marijuana
I.
Personal marijuana cultivation.
Personal marijuana cultivation is permitted only as either accessory uses subject to the standards and permitting requirements established in section 73-2 or a major land uses subject to all applicable standards of this code.
II.
Marijuana facilities general standards.
In addition to all applicable standards of this code, all marijuana facilities and personal marijuana cultivation shall meet the following general standards:
A.
Odor. No marijuana facility shall produce adverse or noxious odors detectable beyond the marijuana facility’s property line.
B.
Visual. Marijuana plants, products, and associated equipment identifying the use as a marijuana facility including, but not limited to all processing, packaging, and business transactions shall be kept from public view and shall not occur on any sidewalk, public street or right-of-way, or any other public place.
C.
Lighting. All grow lights shall be screened to prevent nighttime leakage. Exterior lighting, when required, shall be placed in a manner to minimize off-site glare and visual impacts. Marijuana facilities do not have to comply with any exterior lighting standard that contradicts with industry standards required by the
Marijuana Enforcement Division
of the Colorado Department of Revenue or the Colorado Code of Regulations.
D.
Dwelling units. No marijuana facility may be located within a dwelling unit or within a building that has any portion of it classified as residential under the building code.
E.
Setbacks. The following minimum setbacks shall apply to all facilities associated with a marijuana facility or personal marijuana cultivation subject to this section:
1.
From the property lines of any public or private preschool, elementary school, middle school, junior high school, or high school, including any kindergarten program operated by such schools: one thousand (1,000) feet;
2.
From the property lines of the campus of any college, university, or seminary, or childcare facility : five hundred (500) feet;
3.
From the property lines of a drug or alcohol rehabilitation treatment center: five hundred (500) feet.
F.
Measurement of setback. The setback applies regardless whether the protected uses are inside or outside the unincorporated boundaries of the county. For purposes of this provision, the distance between the marijuana facility and neighboring land use shall be measured in a direct line between the closest point of the physical marijuana facility and the closest point of the property line upon which any of the above referenced uses are located. A marijuana testing facility shall be exempt from the proximity restriction.
G.
Encroachment by other uses. In the instance where the proximity restriction of a marijuana facility is encroached upon by one of the above protected land uses, the marijuana facility may expand or be modified, pursuant to the applicable process, provided it was a legally established land use that preceded the encroaching land use.
H.
Relationship to Ignacio. The proposed location of a marijuana facility shall not be within three (3) miles of the nearest incorporated portions of the town of Ignacio. For purposes of this provision, the distance between the marijuana facility and the town of Ignacio shall be measured in a direct line between the closest point of the project boundary and the closest point on the closest lot or parcel incorporated in the town of Ignacio.
I.
Relationship to Bayfield. The proposed location of a marijuana facility shall not be located within three (3) miles of the nearest incorporated portions of the town of Bayfield at the time a complete application for a new license is accepted by the county, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to a medical marijuana cultivation facility or a retail marijuana cultivation facility. The measurement shall be a direct line between the closest point of the licensed premises and the boundary of the closest parcel incorporated in the town of Bayfield.
Proposed medical and retail marijuana cultivation facilities shall not be located within the "future growth boundary" of the town of Bayfield, as such boundary exists at the time of application for a license. For purposes of this provision, the future growth boundary of the town of Bayfield shall be set forth on the future growth boundary map approved by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Bayfield from time to time and kept on file with La Plata County's geographic information systems ("GIS") department.
III.
Marijuana facilities additional standards.
In addition to all applicable standards of this code and the general standards established in subsection 73-14.II, marijuana facilities shall meet the following additional standards:
A.
Marijuana products manufacturer. A marijuana products manufacturer shall receive the appropriate retail food establishment license from
LPCPH
, if required by applicable law or regulation.
B.
Marijuana store. A marijuana store shall meet the following additional standards:
1.
Hours of operation. A marijuana store shall only be open to the public between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
2.
Marijuana cultivation facility - Reserved.
3.
Marijuana testing facility - Reserved.
4.
Off-premises storage facility - Reserved.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-14, 09/15/2020; Res. No. 2021-23, § 73-14, 10/05/2021; Res. No.
2023-27
, § 73-14, 11/21/2023
)
Effective on: 1/1/2024