Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 38. WILDFIRE ADVISORY BOARD
Sec. 2-700. Wildfire Advisory Board.
I.
Established.
There is hereby established a county wildfire advisory board (the “WAB”).
II.
Membership, qualifications and terms.
The members of the WAB shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners (the
board
) and shall consist of a maximum of fourteen (14) members, seven (7) of whom are regular voting members, up to three (3) alternate members, and four (4) of whom are ex-officio non-voting members.
A.
To the maximum extent possible, the WAB shall represent a broad range of interests and expertise in the community.
B.
Qualifications and terms of office of regular and alternate members.
1.
Each regular and alternate member of the WAB shall be a resident of La Plata
County
.
2.
Each regular and alternate member should have a demonstrated interest and experience in one or more of the following: land use planning, architecture, building and construction, landscaping and wildfire mitigation, forest health, engineering, utilities, real estate, insurance, emergency response, law,
agriculture
, firefighting, environmental science/policy, natural resources and conservation, forestry or forest ecology, utilization of forest biomass, or the planning, protection, science, or mapping of watersheds or forests.
3.
Each regular and alternate member shall have knowledge of the county.
4.
Each regular and alternate member shall demonstrate a dedication to public service.
5.
Each regular and alternate member shall commit to being properly prepared for all meetings, shall attend at least seventy-five (75) percent of all meetings at which attendance is required, and shall have access to the technology necessary to review materials. At a minimum, meetings will occur monthly.
6.
The terms of the regular members shall be staggered.  Of the members first appointed, two (2) shall serve for three (3) years, three (3) shall serve for two (2) years and two (2) shall serve for one (1) year. Thereafter, appointees shall serve for three (3) years, except any member shall serve until a successor has been appointed. A former member may re-apply to serve.
7.
The terms of the alternate members shall be staggered.  Of the members first appointed, one (1) shall serve for three (3) years, one (1) shall serve for two (2) years, and one (1) shall serve for one (1) year.  Thereafter, appointees shall serve for three (3) years, except any member shall serve until a successor has been appointed.  A former alternate member may re-apply to serve.
8.
Removal and filling of vacancies. Regular and alternate members of the WAB shall serve at the sole discretion of and may be removed by the board at any time, with or without cause. If a vacancy occurs on the WAB, the
board
may appoint a member to the WAB to fill the unexpired term.
C.
The board may also appoint up to four (4) ex-officio members providing agency representation from the United States Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Colorado State Forest Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs or local fire district chief or the chief’s designee.
1.
Ex-officio members shall be chosen by the employing agency.
2.
The terms of ex-officio members shall not be limited to three (3) years but such members shall serve at the discretion of the employing agency and the board.  Ex-officio members may be removed any time by the employing agency or the board, with or without cause.
3.
Ex-officio members shall have no vote on matters coming before the WAB.
D.
Compensation. Members of the WAB shall receive no compensation for their services, except they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred, subject to applicable provisions of the state statutes and county policies and procedures for reimbursement of expenses.
E.
Meetings and records of proceedings. Meetings of the WAB shall be subject to the Colorado Open Meetings Law, C.R.S. § 24-6-402 and records of its proceedings shall be kept and open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the Colorado Open Records Act, C.R.S. § 24-72-201,
et seq.
F.
Officers and bylaws. The WAB shall elect a chair from its regular members, whose term shall be for one (1) year. The WAB may create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary. The WAB shall be empowered to adopt and amend bylaws governing its procedures as it may consider necessary or advisable. Such bylaws shall be consistent with this
code
.
G.
Quorum. Except as may be otherwise provided by statute, four (4) acting members, excluding ex-officio members, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the WAB. If a quorum is present, the decision of one (1) or more members of the WAB to abstain from voting thereon shall not be deemed to constitute less than a quorum for the transaction of business. Action of the WAB shall be by majority vote of those entitled to vote. Abstention shall not be counted as votes for the purpose of determining a majority. A tie vote constitutes a denial of the proposed action by the WAB.
H.
Role of alternates.  Alternate members are authorized to perform the duties of regular members who are temporarily unable to act due to absence, illness, conflicts of interest in any matter before the WAB or any other cause.  The services of alternate members shall be alternated, where practicable, and, to achieve this goal, the chair of the WAB shall contact alternate members to achieve a seven (7) member board, whenever possible. Alternate members seated to fulfill the duties of a regular member at a meeting shall be entitled to vote at that meeting.
(Res. No. 2021-15, § 2-700, 05/11/2021)
Effective on: 1/1/1901