Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE V. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Weight and size limits, C.R.S. §§ 42-4-104, 42-4-106, 42-4-111, 42-4-501—42-4-512.
DIVISION 3. PERMITS
Sec. 42-238. Permits generally.
No
permit
shall
be required for any
vehicle
which does not exceed the applicable limits set forth in this article.
Transport permits
shall be required where any vehicle size, weight or length exceeds the limits set forth in division 4 of this article.
Special permits
shall be required where any vehicle or load exceeds the specific weight limits as shown on the
bridge weight limit map
, appendix B to Ordinance No. 1997-1, on  file in the clerk and recorder's office, or where any portion of the route is listed as a prohibited overweight route, appendix C to Ordinance No. 1997-1, on file in the clerk and recorder's office, or as provided in division 5 of this article, or as otherwise provided by this article.
A special permit may may be issued pursuant to this section and C.R.S. § 42-4-510(1)(b)(II) for overweight divisible loads if;
The vehicle has a quad axle grouping and the maximum gross weight of the vehicle does not exceed one hundred ten thousand pounds; or
The vehicle is operated in combination with a trailer or semitrailer, the trailer has two or three axles, and the maximum gross weight of the vehicle does not exceed ninety- seven thousand pounds; and
The owner and operator of the motor vehicle are in compliance with the federal "Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999", Pub.L. 106-159, as amended, as applicable to commercial vehicles; and
The vehicle complies with rules promulgated by the Colorado Department of Transportation concerning the distribution of the load upon the vehicle's axles.
Proof of insurance and vehicle registration. No vehicle shall be issued an overweight vehicle permit (single trip, special single trip, monthly or annual) unless the applicant supplies written documentation, in the form of a certificate of insurance, a state motor vehicle insurance identification card, or their equivalent, establishing that a current policy of motor vehicle liability insurance, with coverage limits which meet or exceed the limits required by state law, is in effect for the vehicles to be permitted. The applicant shall also submit written documentation that the vehicle to be permitted, if required to be registered under state law prior to operation over a public road, has a current state motor vehicle registration, or if the vehicle is not registered in this state, that it has a current motor vehicle registration issued by the appropriate government entity in another state, territory or province.
Land
use
regulations apply. No permit shall be granted for an overweight and/or oversized truck, motor vehicle, or any combination thereof, authorizing the movement of such vehicles upon any
county
road or highway to a location within the county, when such trucks or vehicles are to be used in conjunction with an activity which the county land use regulations, in effect now or hereinafter adopted, require to have obtained county land use approval, unless and until the applicant for the permit provides satisfactory proof to the county road and bridge
director
, or his designee, that such land use approval has been granted by the county.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3(2-8), 9-8-1997,
Res. No.
2019-12
, § 42-238, 04/09/2019
)
Effective on: 4/9/2019