Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-1 General purpose and applicability
I.
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare, to encourage well-planned, stable neighborhoods and to protect the county's natural environment by:
A.
Ensuring certain subdivision proposals are in general conformance with the goals, policies, actions and other provisions of the comprehensive plan, applicable district plan and provisions of this code;
B.
Preventing development of areas subject to flood, geologic hazard, wildfire, radiation, noise and air pollution or other environmental hazards unless such hazards can be mitigated;
C.
Encouraging subdivision design that protects wildlife habitat, wetlands, native vegetation, existing landforms and the county's historical, archeological and paleontological resources;
D.
Ensuring land intended for development is suited for the proposed uses;
E.
Coordinating the design and construction of roadway, street and utility systems;
F.
Requiring the cost of improvements necessary for the development of a proposed subdivision and of benefit to its eventual residents be paid by the proponent of such development;
G.
Making adequate provision for development of schools, roads, recreational facilities, open space and other infrastructure necessary to serve the needs of the county's population;
H.
Ensuring land is not subdivided unless the necessary infrastructure, services and facilities to support such development are available.
II.
Applicability and exemptions.
A.
Applicability. This chapter shall be applicable to all land divisions into two (2) or more resulting lots, where any of the resulting lots are less than thirty-five (35) acres in gross area, where the land division does not otherwise qualify for an exemption under this section or under C.R.S. § 30-28-101(10). However, where the applicant includes the acreage of lots that are thirty-five (35) acres or larger in the calculation of the subdivision’s permitted project density, then such lots shall be platted and included in the subdivision application and review. This chapter shall also apply to manufactured home subdivisions and to the creation of certain leasehold interests as described in subparagraph 67-1.II.B.1 and shall apply to the creation of condominiums, townhome dwellings, and other forms of airspace ownership or air-right subdivisions, as described and defined in C.R.S. § 38-33-101 et seq. No plat of a subdivision shall be used for purposes of sale, lease, or building development until approved under the provisions of this code.
B.
Exemptions. The board hereby determines that, in accordance with C.R.S. § 30-28-101(10)(d), the following divisions of land into separate parcels or interests are not within the purposes of C.R.S. § 30-28-101 et seq. and are hereby exempted from the definition of the terms “subdivision” and “subdivided land” but, in some instances, may still require a land use permit or other forms of approval.
1.
Creation of certain leasehold interests:
a.
The creation of separate interests or interests in common for lease but not for sale shall be exempt from the definition of the term "subdivision," except as otherwise specifically provided in this subsection.
b.
The creation of a leasehold interest in a parcel that is a portion of a larger parcel of land for any other term of years shall constitute a “subdivision” under this code if the county determines the lessor is using the exemption set forth in paragraph B of this subsection to circumvent or evade the subdivision regulations.
2.
Boundary adjustments and lot consolidations. The adjustment of lot lines or parcel boundaries without the creation of any additional lots or parcels, or the deletion of existing lot lines or parcel boundaries, shall be exempt from the definition of the term "subdivision," but shall be processed in accordance with the boundary adjustment and lot consolidation procedures in section 67-9.
3.
Clustered rural development process. Divisions of land under the clustered rural development described in section 67-7.
4.
Lots qualifying for legalization. Lots meeting the approval criteria for legalization under section 67-14.
5.
Agricultural exemption subdivision process. Divisions of land under the agricultural exemption subdivision described in section 67-6.
6.
Any division of land created by the court pursuant to the procedure set forth in C.R.S. § 30-28-101(10)(d) if the board has been given notice and opportunity to join as a party in interest in the proceeding for the purpose of raising the issue of an intent to evade the statutory requirements for subdivision of land.
7.
Any division of land which creates cemetery lots.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 67-1, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020