Chapter 63 Administration and Review of Roles
Sec. 63-6 Registered district advisory committees
I.
Intent and purpose.
Registered district advisory committees
afford organized citizen groups the opportunity to participate in the district plan amendment process and to comment on land use permits which require public notice, including but not limited to administrative, minor, major, as well as zoning, comprehensive, and district plan amendment applications. Membership in a
RDAC
is not required for an individual citizen to participate in the district plan amendment process, and membership in a RDAC does not eliminate or impact an individual member’s right to comment as an individual citizen. Provided a RDAC meets the requirements of this section, more than one (1) RDAC may exist for a
planning district
. A RDAC is intended to represent the entire geographical area of its respective planning district and shall not limit its focus or advocacy to any particular area within a planning district to the exclusion of other areas in the planning district.
II.
Eligibility.
To form and maintain a RDAC, a citizen group shall meet the following criteria:
A.
Membership. All members of a RDAC shall be residents or owners of
real property
partially or wholly located within the specified planning district and shall be volunteers. Membership in a RDAC shall be open to any individual or organization who satisfies this criterion. A RDAC shall be comprised of a minimum of seven (7) members.
B.
Registration. Citizens wishing to form a RDAC shall apply to the
community development department
in July or December of each year. The director shall approve a RDAC that meets the criteria in this section. Provided the application is approved, the RDAC shall thereafter maintain the following information on file with the
CDD
and shall update such information no later than January 31 of each year:
1.
Official name of the RDAC and the planning district to which it corresponds.
2.
The names, mailing addresses, emails, and telephone numbers of its officers, if any.
3.
The name, mailing address, email, and telephone number of two (2) members who may be contacted by the county or a member of the public.
4.
Methods used to communicate with members.
5.
Date, time and location of regular meetings, if any.
C.
Meetings. A RDAC shall:
1.
At a minimum, meet annually and as needed to review land use applications within the planning district and comprehensive, and district plan, amendments. The annual meeting may occur at the same time and location as a meeting held for other purposes. For any meeting of the RDAC during which a vote of the members occurs, the RDAC shall maintain a list of those members in attendance for a period of one (1) year. The purpose of a minimum once a year meeting is in part to affirm the current membership of the RDAC.
2.
Post notice of the date, time, location and detailed agenda for each meeting of the RDAC no less than twenty-four (24) hours in advance of each meeting or, in the instance of an annual meeting, no less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the meeting. The members of the RDAC may determine that more than twenty-four (24) hour notice shall be provided to the membership. The postings shall occur in at
least one (1) public place within the geographical boundaries of the planning district
,
in a publication available to the general public such as a newspaper, or utilize posts on a publicly accessible website, or other internet resources that are generally open to all members of the public;
provided, however, social media accounts may not be the sole platform for posting
. Posts that can only be seen by members of a specific page, platform or group are not sufficient to constitute notice.
A record of the notices shall be maintained by the
RDAC
for a period of one (1) year. Meetings of a
RDAC
shall be open to the general public but not otherwise subject to the Colorado Open Meetings Law.
3.
Maintain minutes of all meetings and make such minutes available to the county or public upon request. The minutes need not be verbatim but shall set forth the consensus of the discussion that led to the decisions and actions required.
D.
De-listing. Any RDAC that fails or ceases to meet the requirements of this section may be de-listed as a RDAC by the director, upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to the RDAC. The notice shall set forth the basis for de-listing citing existing deficiencies. The RDAC may cure such deficiencies within the same thirty (30) day period and avoid de-listing if it provides the director satisfactory proof the requirements of this section have been met. If there is no current contact information for officers on file and the director is unable to locate such information after making a reasonable effort to locate such officers, the RDAC may be de-listed without prior written notice.
III.
Role of a registered district advisory committee.
In all aspects of its role, a RDAC shall serve primarily as a public liaison. Membership in a RDAC does not eliminate or impact an individual member’s right to comment as a citizen, but members should ensure accurate attribution of such comments.
A.
Amendment of district plans. A RDAC shall have an opportunity for and may make recommendations to the planning commission on the content of amendments to the applicable district plan and provide comment on the findings necessary for amendment of the district plan as set forth in chapter 64.
B.
Project review. A RDAC may review and comment on land use permit application submittals identified above in 63-6.I for projects located within the boundaries of its applicable district plan consistent with subsection 66-14.IV.A. Such review should primarily focus on whether the development proposal is in general conformance with the advisory goals, policies and actions contained in the comprehensive plan, and the applicable district plan. The review may also comment on other relevant considerations related to the proposal. In rendering its comments on a proposal, a RDAC should reference relevant portions of the comprehensive plan or district plan considered. Such plan provisions should support the basis for the RDAC comments.
C.
The failure of a RDAC for whatever reason to receive a notification of a land use permit application shall not invalidate any action taken by the county or constitute grounds for a delay in any public hearing or public meeting. Comments from the RDAC are not meant to replace or carry any more weight than public comment received regarding a project. They are an opportunity for organized citizen groups to present the positions of their members during the district plan amendment process and specific types of land use permit applications identified above in 63-6.I. These comments will be viewed as public comment in the process and will be presented as such to the
PC
and the board.
(
Res. No. 2022-01, § 63-6, 01/04/2022; Res. No. 2022-01, § 63-6, 01/04/2022
)
Effective on: 1/4/2022