Chapter 94 - PUBLIC PROPERTY
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Public places,
Chapter 38
; roads and bridges,
Chapter 42
; development standards and specifications,
Chapter 74
; natural resources,
Chapter 90
.
ARTICLE III. - VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec. 94-36. - Vacation of eligible county road rights-of-way.
A portion of or an entire public right-of-way shall be eligible for vacation pursuant to this section only if the following criteria are met:
The proposed vacation is based upon a past, present or proposed future relocation, reconstruction, or construction of a public road or path on or adjacent to a portion of public right-of-way; and
The
county
determines that the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way is located entirely within the county and is not within the limits of any city or town; and
The county determines that the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way does not constitute a boundary line between two counties or a boundary line between the county and a city or town; and
The county determines that the proposed vacation does not leave any land adjoining said roadway without an established public road or private access easement connecting said land with another established public road; and
The county determines that county ownership of the proposed vacated portion of public right-of-way no longer serves a public purpose.
If a right-of-way or a portion of right-of-way is eligible for vacation pursuant to this section, the road and bridge department shall request a public hearing before the
board of county commissioners
. At least ten days before any such hearing, notice of the hearing shall be mailed by first class mail to the last known address of each landowner who owns land within 500 feet of the right-of-way that is proposed to be vacated. Such notice shall include the time and place of the county commissioner meeting and shall indicate that a resolution to vacate the county roadway will be presented at the meeting.
At the hearing contemplated by subsection (II), the road and bridge department and any affected land-owner shall be entitled to present evidence. If the board of county commissioners determines in their discretion that the requirements of this section are met, and that it is in the best interests of the county to do so, the board of county commissioners may by resolution vacate the right-of-way or a portion thereof with such conditions or reservations as are proper. Title to the vacated lands shall vest pursuant to C.R.S. § 43-2-302.
(Res. No. 2002-5, § 2, 1-7-2002)
Effective on: 8/28/2012