CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-12 Meetings and final decision on application
I.
Permitted scope of action by review and decision-making official or body.
A.
Permitted actions.  When considering an application or appeal, a review body or decision-making body shall consider the staff recommendation, referral agency and public comments and the approval criteria and standards for the type of application or appeal before it decides to:
1.
Approve the application or appeal;
2.
Approve the application or appeal with conditions;
3.
Request more or additional information and continue the meeting to a date certain for a decision, subject to any statutory time limits;
4.
Take the application under advisement and continue to a date certain for a decision, subject to any statutory time limits;
5.
Deny the application or appeal;
6.
Site visits by review body or decision-making body.  As part of its consideration of the application, the review body or decision-making body members may, individually, as a group or through a committee appointed for that purpose, inspect the site of the proposed land use or development activity.  If a quorum of the review body or decision-making body attend the site visit, the site visit shall be considered a meeting subject to the Colorado Open Meetings Law.  The site visit may occur at any time prior to the review or decision-making body’s final recommendation or action on the application.  Upon reasonable request by the director, the applicant shall mark the development site prior to the site visit to generally locate property lines, building envelopes, and other key site planning features.
7.
Conditions of approval.
a.
The review body or decision-making body may recommend or impose such conditions upon the subject development as are necessary to carry out the general purpose and intent of this code. Conditions and/or additional information requirements shall be in written form and attached to the permit.
b.
Conditions of approval shall be reasonably related to the anticipated impacts of the proposed use or development and shall be based upon adopted standards.
c.
Any condition of approval that requires an applicant to dedicate land or pay money to a public entity in an amount that is not calculated according to a formula applicable to a broad class of applicants, shall be roughly proportional both in nature and extent to the anticipated impacts of the proposed development, as shown through an individualized determination of impacts.
d.
The decision-making body may place specific time limits on the satisfaction of any condition of approval.
8.
Written findings required. All decision-making body final decisions on an application or an appeal, except final decisions made by the director through a determination letter, shall be based on written findings of fact related to the relevant standards or criteria set forth in this code.
9.
Final decisions by director in writing. All final decisions on an application made by the director shall be made in writing.
II.
Conduct of public meeting on applications.
A public meeting on an application required by this code shall be conducted according to the following procedures:
A.
Rights of all persons.  Any person may appear at the public meeting on the application and submit evidence, either individually or as a representative of an organization.  Upon request of the chair, anyone representing an organization shall present written evidence of their authority to speak on behalf of the organization on the matter under consideration.  Each person who appears at the public meeting shall be identified and, if appearing on behalf of an organization, state the name and mailing address of the organization.  All timely written comments shall be made a part of the record and available for public inspection.
B.
Applicant duty to appear.  The applicant or the applicant's representative shall attend all public meetings concerning the application.  It shall be the duty of the applicant to become apprised of the dates of the meetings. If the applicant or applicant's representative is not present, the application may be tabled.  If the applicant or applicant's representative is not present at two (2) scheduled meetings on the application, the application shall be deemed withdrawn.  After such withdrawal, the county will not take further action on the application. To re-initiate review, the applicant shall resubmit the application, which in all respects shall be treated as a new application for purposes of review, scheduling, and payment of application fees.
C.
Order of proceedings.  The chair conducting the public meeting may exclude testimony or evidence that is found to be irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious.  If any testimony or evidence is so excluded, the person offering such testimony or evidence shall have an opportunity to enter it into the record in writing at the public meeting.  The order of the public meeting should generally adhere to the following format, allowing for questions by the review and decision-making body throughout:
1.
Community development department presentation. Staff shall provide a narrative or graphic description of the project.
2.
Staff report. Staff shall present its staff report and any other relevant information concerning the project.
3.
Applicant presentation. The applicant may present any information the applicant deems appropriate.
4.
Public testimony. Public testimony shall be heard.
5.
Applicant response. The applicant may respond to any comments made by the public.
6.
Staff response. Staff may respond to any statement made by the applicant, public, or the review body or decision-making body.
7.
Concluding comments by the applicant.
8.
Final decision by the decision-making body.
D.
Burden of proof.  The burden of demonstrating an application complies with applicable standards and approval criteria is on the applicant.  The burden is not on the county or other parties to show that the criteria have or have not been met.  The level of burden is by a preponderance of the evidence meaning the applicant shall demonstrate that it is more likely than not that the requirements of the code, when applied to the project, have been met.
E.
Ex parte communications.  Members of review and decision-making bodies shall not engage in ex parte communication with applicants and their agents or the public about applications under review or reasonably anticipated to come under review.  If an ex parte communication is attempted by telephone, in person, correspondence, social media or other means outside of a regularly scheduled meeting, the member of the decision-making body involved shall first attempt to stop the party from the prohibited behavior, then document the communication and notify the director or county attorney.  The member shall report the communication at the next meeting on the subject application.  No ex parte communication shall be considered by a decision-making body or any of its members, in deciding on a land use permit matter.  Communications on legislative matters such as amendments to the comprehensive plan or amendments to the land use code are not land use permit matters and are not considered prohibited ex parte communications.
F.
Continuation of public meetings.  The review body or decision-making body, on its own motion or at the request of an applicant, may postpone or continue the public meeting.  A meeting for which proper notice was given may be continued to a later date without again complying with the notice requirements of this code, provided the continued meeting is set for a certain date, and the date and time of the continued meeting is announced at the time of continuance.  No public meeting for purposes of review or action on a PUD plan or any plat or other plan required by C.R.S. §§ 30-28-133 (subdivisions) or 30-28-127 (public utilities) or any public improvements agreement required by C.R.S. § 30-28-137 shall be continued for more than forty (40) days from the date of the meeting’s commencement without the applicant’s written consent or waiver.  An applicant may request no more than two (2) continuances of a public meeting.   Granting of all continuances shall be at the discretion of the body conducting the meeting.
G.
Submittal of new additional or revised information.  When an application is tabled for the purpose of allowing the applicant an opportunity to respond to concerns delineated by the body conducting the meeting, any new additional and/or revised information shall be submitted no later than five (5) business days in advance of the continued meeting date, unless directed otherwise by the chair.
H.
Withdrawal of an application.  An applicant shall have the right to withdraw an application at any time prior to action on the application at a public meeting or meeting.  The applicant shall request the withdrawal in writing, and after such withdrawal, the county will not take further action on the application. To re-initiate review, the applicant shall resubmit the application, which in all respects, shall be treated as a new application for purposes of review, scheduling, and payment of application fees.
I.
Record of public meeting.  The body conducting the public meeting shall record the public meeting by any appropriate means, including audiotape or videotape. The written or taped record of oral proceedings, including all testimony, the minutes of the body, all applications, exhibits, and papers submitted in any proceeding before the body, the staff report and project file, and the decision of the body shall constitute the record.  Such materials, upon presentation to the county, shall become the public property of the county and shall not be removed without proper authorization. A copy of the public meeting record may be acquired upon reasonable notice by any person upon application to the CDD and payment of a fee to cover the costs of duplication of the record pursuant to the county’s fee schedule.
III.
Times for review and extensions.
A.
Times for review. All time frames within which a review or decision-making body is required by this code to do any act shall be advisory only, unless otherwise required by law. Failure to keep within the stated time for review shall not be deemed an approval or recommendation of approval on behalf of the review, advisory or decision-making body.
B.
Authority to extend times. Any review, advisory or decision-making body shall have the discretion to extend the time frames set forth in this code for review and final action on an application upon a finding that the projected size, complexity, anticipated impacts, or other factors associated with the proposed development support such extension of time, except as otherwise required by this section. Any extension of the time periods for review and action as may be established under state law may be extended only if the applicant agrees in writing to an extension of time. See also paragraph 66-12.II.F, for authority to continue a noticed public meeting.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-12, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020