Chapter 7 regulated MARIJUANA
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2014-02, § 2(Exh. A), adopted June 10, 2014, amended chapter 7 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 7, §§ 7-1—7-16, pertained to medical marijuana, and derived from Res. No. 2011-39, § 1(Exh. A), adopted December 13, 2011; Res. No. 2012-18, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 22, 2012, and Res. No. 2012-27, § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 26, 2012. Ord. No. 2017-01 and Res. No. 2017-08, adopted on March 7, 2017 amended Article II. Medical Marijuana in its entirety, removed Article II, and amended Article III. Retail Marijuana in its entirety; Res. No. 2020-23 (Exh. A & B), adopted May 26, 2020 repealed Articles I, II and III and replaced with Regulated Marijuana chapter 7.
ARTICLE I REGULATED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Sec. 7-6 New licenses
Table 7-6: Typical Review Process for New Applications (for illustrative purposes)
Pre-Application Meeting with Staff (Mandatory)
↓
Submit Complete Application to Staff
↓
Background Checks Completed by Law Enforcement
↓
Staff Review and Recommendation to Local Licensing Authority
↓
Public Notice (posting and publication) – 10-day requirement
↓
LLA Hearing on Application and Finding on Good Moral Character
↓                                                                                                     ↓
Conditional Approval                                                                                      Denial
↓                                                                                                      ↓
1-year: review of continuing qualification                                          Right to Appeal (C.R.C.P. 106)
18-months: land use permit, CO, etc. and conditions
of approval (includes issuance of state license)
↓
Inspection & Issuance of Local License
↓
Fire District/Department & Health Inspections (60 days)
I.
Application required
.  An application for a new
license
shall be submitted on current forms provided by the state, together with forms provided by the
county
. At least one controlling beneficial owner shall sign all applications. However, other owners with day-to-day management authority may be required to sign authorizations, requests to release information and other forms required by licensing authority staff.
Applications shall be materially complete and accurate and must include all attachments, checklists, verifications and supporting documents required by the state or county’s current forms before the application will be accepted or considered.  The staff may refuse to accept an incomplete application.  Every application shall include the following documentation; provided, that applications for a business operator’s license do not need to include documentation listed in sections (C)(1), (J) or (K):
A.
Proof of the right to possess the proposed premises
.  Documents that demonstrate proof of possession of the proposed licensed premises, or place of business in the case of business operators, which may include a copy of a deed, lease, or contract that governs the terms and conditions of the occupancy of the premises for the period of the license.
B.
Building plan.
1.
Plans for the interior of the licensed premises, or place of business in the case of business operators, shall include a detailed floor plan layout drawn to scale (1/4 in. = 1 ft.), which clearly reflects the uses, functions, and operations within the building.
a.
For licensed premises, the plans shall show mechanical functions such as cooling and ventilation systems, filters and discharge systems and locations, heating systems, and all grow light configurations.
b.
Where marijuana products are prepared, a detailed plan for the concentrate production areas, food preparation areas, or both must be detailed separately, where applicable.
c. Where walk-up or drive-up windows are to be located at a marijuana store, location of such windows must be detailed on the building plan.
d.
For proposed facilities that are contained in a multi-occupancy building, detailed drawings showing the wall construction that separates the ownerships or occupancies must also be submitted.
e.
All drawings shall be professionally prepared by an architect, engineer or other drafting professional and submitted on paper 24” x 36” or larger.
2.
All plans drawings submitted to the county must match the drawings and diagrams submitted to the state or such plans will not be accepted.
C.
Location and plot plan
.
1.
A location plan that shows all of the following:
a.
All uses within fifty (50) feet of the licensed premises.
b.
Any public or private preschool, kindergarten, or elementary, middle, junior high, or high school uses within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the licensed premises.
c.
The campus of any college, university, seminary, or a
childcare
facility other than a preschool or kindergarten located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the licensed premises.
d.
A drug or alcohol rehabilitation treatment center located within one thousand (1,000) feet of the licensed premises.
e.
If the premises is within three and a half (3.5) miles of the municipal boundaries of either the towns of Ignacio or Bayfield, the location plan shall also show the distance to the nearest incorporated portions of such town.
2. A plot plan that shows the location of the building or other structure(s) containing the proposed licensed premises or place of business and provides distances from such structure(s) to adjacent buildings and occupancies, property lines, and physical land features, such as streams, driveways, and roadways.
3.
Location plans and plot plans shall be professionally prepared by an architect, engineer or other drafting professional and submitted on paper 24” x 36” or larger.
4. Upon approval by the building department director or its designee, the plot plan and location plan requirements may be satisfied through the submittal of one (1) plan.
D.
Fees
.  All applicable fees.
E.
Fingerprints; qualifications.
1. Sets of fingerprints and personal history information for each of the applicant’s individual owners with
day-to-day management
authority for the marijuana business. For an
owner
that is an entity, fingerprints and personal history information are required for the entity’s owners who will have day-to-day management authority for the marijuana business.
2. Any individual whose fingerprints have been previously submitted to, and processed by, the
local licensing authority
within one (1) year of the date of application may request that staff use the results or reports of the most recent criminal history background check when processing the current application; provided, that truthful information is provided to the
local licensing authority
and its staff about any matters set forth in section
7-6(III)(C)
that occurred after the date of such reports. Further, the local licensing authority or its staff may request additional information from law enforcement agencies about an individual’s conduct as part of its background investigation.
3. The local licensing authority may acquire a name-based criminal history check for any individual who has twice submitted to a fingerprint-based criminal history record check and whose fingerprints are unclassifiable.
F.
Proof of citizenship, residency and suitability.
Evidence demonstrating:
1. Lawful presence or citizenship and Colorado residency of each individual who is an owner of a marijuana business and has day-to-day management authority over such marijuana business.
2. A finding of suitability from the
MED
for each individual who is an owner of a marijuana business and has day-to-day management authority over a marijuana business. This requirement may be waived if the applicant can provide evidence satisfactory to staff that an individual was exempt from obtaining such finding of suitability from the MED.
Findings of suitability provided to the local licensing authority within one (1) year from the date of issuance by the MED will be considered valid, unless otherwise revoked by the MED. Findings of suitability older than one (1) year will not be accepted.
G.
Corporate good standing for the licensee.
A certificate of good standing issued by the Colorado Secretary of State’s office and, as applicable, the equivalent document issued by the agency or entity that registers or licenses foreign entities for any applicant that is a foreign entity.
H.
Registered agent
. Any entity applying for a license shall appoint and maintain a registered agent that satisfies the requirements of C.R.S. § 7-90-701, as amended, and shall provide the name and contact information of such
person
to licensing staff.
I.
Business operator agreement and name of designated management personnel.
Any agreement(s) between a marijuana business operator and other licensed marijuana business must be provided to licensing staff, together with the name(s) of the natural person(s), whom must be an officer, agent or employees of the business operator, designated as management personnel for the licensed premises of the other marijuana business.
J.
Material safety data sheets.
Upon request, copies of MSDS or SDS sheets for all proposed
chemicals
and chemical mixtures to be stored or used on the premises, or a list of the same.
K.
Off-premises storage
. If an applicant is seeking approval of an off-premises storage facility, applications shall include:
1. A copy of the completed state forms.
2. Documents demonstrating the right to possess the off-premises storage facility, as described in subsection (I)(A) of this section.
3. A building plan and location and plot plan specific to the off-premises storage facility, as described in
subsections (I)(B) and (I)(C)
of this section.
L.
Additional information.
Any additional information the local licensing authority, or its staff, may require to enable the local licensing authority to determine whether a license should be granted, including but not limited to proof of compliance with the
marijuana code
, the
marijuana rules,
or any regulations under this article.  The additional information must be provided to staff no later than seven (7) days after the request is made to the applicant, unless otherwise specified by the local licensing authority or its staff.  Failure to provide the requested evidence or information by the deadline may postpone the processing and review of the application and may be grounds for denial of the application.
M.
Waiver.
The local licensing authority may waive, at its sole discretion, any of the above submission requirements.
II.
Request for concurrent review.
The local licensing authority or an applicant, with local licensing authority approval, may request concurrent review of its application by the MED.
III.
Application review.
All applications for a new license shall be reviewed at a public hearing by the local licensing authority. Hearings shall be held no less than thirty (30) days after receipt of a complete application. No public hearing will be scheduled or noticed until the results of the criminal history records check completed by law enforcement agencies are received by staff.
A.
Local licensing authority considerations.
The local licensing authority may consider the facts and evidence adduced as a result of its background investigation, as well as any other facts pertinent to the type of license for which the application has been made. Such facts include, but are not limited to, the number, type, and availability of marijuana businesses located in or near the premises under consideration and other pertinent matters affecting the qualification of the applicant for the conduct of the type of business proposed, including, but not limited to, the applicant’s owners’ good moral character.
B.
Criminal justice records.
The local licensing authority may review criminal justice records furnished by a criminal justice agency, as well as other records that are relevant to a determination on the applicant’s owners’ good moral character. The local licensing authority may use the information resulting from such criminal history record checks to determine whether an applicant is qualified to hold or continue to hold a license pursuant to this chapter. If the local licensing authority considers the applicant’s owners’ criminal history records, it shall also consider information submitted by the applicant or its owners, including but not limited to, evidence of rehabilitation, character references, and educational, vocational and community achievements.
C.
Good moral character.
In determining good moral character of any applicant under this article, the local licensing authority may consider, but is not limited to, the following factors:
1. Any inconsistency between information provided by the applicant or its owners on the licensing application and the information that is discovered in processing the application.
2. Any civil lawsuits that demonstrate a pattern of fraud or dishonesty, or a lack of respect for legal obligations.
3. The denial, suspension, loss, or revocation of any professional or business license.
4. Any violation(s) of MED rules for any marijuana business or establishment owned by the applicant.
5. Any criminal conviction, including misdemeanor convictions, on the licensed premises, or place of business in the case of a business operator, by the applicant or its owners.
6. More than one (1) misdemeanor conviction in one (1) year or three (3) or more misdemeanor convictions in the last five (5) years.
7. Any felony conviction within the past fifteen (15) years or a drug-related felony at any time, unless such felony is no longer a criminal offense.
8. More than one (1) DUI offense in the last five (5) years or lack of follow through on court-ordered requirements.
D.
Results of the investigation(s).
At least five (5) days prior to a public hearing, licensing staff shall provide the applicant with a written or electronic copy of the findings of the background investigation(s) and its recommendations to the local licensing authority.
E.
Public hearing notice.
Public notice given by publication and posting shall comply with the requirements found in C.R.S. § 44-10-303, as amended.
1. Notice for a public hearing shall be published and posted at the proposed site for the licensed premises, or place of business in the case of a business operator, not less than ten (10) days prior to a scheduled hearing.
a. The applicant shall post the sign in a conspicuous place on the proposed premises or place of business that is clearly visible to the general public.
b. County staff shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
F.
Conditional approval; satisfaction of conditions.
1.
Conditional approval.
After a public hearing, the application may be conditionally approved if the applicant demonstrates that it has met the requirements set forth in
section 7-6(I)
and that it and its owners are qualified to hold a license pursuant to the requirements of this
section 7-6(III)
. Any conditionally approved license will be conditioned on:
a. Proof of continuing good moral character, which will be reviewed within one (1) year of the date of conditional approval, as set forth in
subsection (F)(2)
below.
b. Satisfaction of the requirements set forth in
subsection (F)(3)
below, within eighteen (18) months of the date of conditional approval, with regard to land use, building code, fire department, health department and electrical board approvals.
c. Satisfaction, within the time limits imposed by the local licensing authority, of any other conditions of approval that are reasonably related to the furtherance and protection of the health, safety and welfare of the general public and the neighborhood in which the licensed premises or place of business is to be located.
2.
Review of continued qualifications; good moral character.
If a license has not been issued to an applicant within one (1) year of the date of conditional approval, because the applicant has not satisfied all of the conditions of approval imposed by the local licensing authority, the local licensing authority will review an applicant’s owners’ good moral character and continuing qualifications to hold a license, pursuant to the requirements of
section
7-3 and section 7-6(I) and (III). Applicants will be required to submit an application, and pay applicable fees for the review, to the local licensing authority not less than thirty (30) days prior to the one (1) year anniversary of conditional approval.
a. Satisfactory evidence of continued qualification and good moral character shall be a condition of the continued right to obtain the remaining approvals required under
subsection (F)(3)
below. Failure to satisfy this requirement may result in termination and revocation of conditional approval of a license.
b. Local licensing authority staff may, at any time, solicit comments from federal, state and local law enforcement agencies regarding any matters that are relevant to determine the applicant’s owners’ good moral character and continued qualifications to maintain conditional approval for a license pursuant to this chapter. If the local licensing authority considers the information provided by federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, it shall also consider information submitted by the applicant or its owners, including but not limited to, evidence of rehabilitation, character references, and educational achievements.
3.
Land use, building code and ancillary approvals and inspections required.
Within eighteen (18) months of the date an applicant receives conditional approval for a license, the applicant will be required to obtain and provide the following information to local licensing authority staff for any licensed premises or place of business located within the unincorporated county:
a.
Proof of land use approval.
Written comments or a letter from the county community development department confirming that the proposed licensed premises or place of business has received land use approval and that all conditions of approval have been satisfied.
b.
Building code approval.
Written comments or a letter from the county building department confirming that the proposed licensed premises or place of business complies with all applicable building code provisions, has all necessary building permits and has been issued a certificate of occupancy.
c.
Electrical installation comments.
Written comments, a letter or a copy of an approved inspection report from an inspector with the
CSEB
that demonstrates the safety of the installation for the proposed premises.
i. If an applicant is applying to add a new license to a premises already approved by the local licensing authority, and if no alterations or modifications are being proposed for such premises as part of the new application, the applicant shall verify, on its application, that no electrical changes have been made to the premises since the date of the last inspection conducted by the CSEB.
ii. In the alternative, an applicant may provide written comments from an electrician licensed in Colorado stating that, based on the last approved inspection report from the CSEB, no alterations or modifications have been made to the licensed premises. A copy of the inspection report relied on by the applicant or electrician must be referenced in the verification or comments and provided to staff.
d.
Extension for good cause.
At a public meeting, the local licensing authority may, for good cause, extend the eighteen (18) month deadline for submittal of the information required in this subsection. Any applicant seeking an extension of this deadline must provide written notice of its request, and rationale for the request, to local licensing authority staff no less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the eighteen (18) month deadline.
Failure to obtain the needed approvals and provide satisfactory evidence of the same to the local licensing authority’s staff, or to obtain an extension from the local licensing authority at a public meeting, within eighteen (18) months of the date conditional approval is given, will result in automatic termination and revocation of such conditional approval.
G.
Denial.
After a public hearing, the application may be denied if the applicant, or its owners, does not meet, or has failed to comply with any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the marijuana code, the marijuana rules or any regulations under this article.
H.
Written determination.
A written decision with findings supporting the conditional approval or denial of the application shall be issued within thirty (30) days after the public hearing. A copy of the decision shall be sent by certified mail to the applicant at the address shown in the application.
I.
Inspection prior to operation and issuance of license.
After an applicant satisfies all conditions of approval imposed by the local licensing authority, the license shall not be issued until the building in which business is to be conducted is ready for occupancy with such furniture, fixtures, and equipment as is necessary to comply with the application provisions of this article. An inspection of the premises must be conducted by staff prior to issuance of the license to determine that the applicant has complied with the building plans, plot plans and sketches for the building, the requirements of this code and any other terms and conditions of approval imposed on the issuance of the license.
J.
Inspection after operation and issuance of license.
Within sixty (60) days after issuance of a license, the applicant shall provide local licensing authority staff with the following information:
1.
Fire authority/district comments.
Cultivation facilities, marijuana products manufacturers and any other licensee that is dually located with cultivation facilities or marijuana products manufacturers must submit written comments or a letter from the appropriate fire authority or district demonstrating compliance with the fire code.
a. If an applicant is applying to add a new license to a premises already approved by the local licensing authority, and if no alterations or modifications are being proposed for such premises as part of the new application, written comments or a letter from the appropriate fire authority or district dated within twelve (12) months of the date of conditional approval of the license may be accepted to demonstrate compliance with the fire code.
2.
Compliance with applicable health and safety regulations
. For licensees other than business operators, proof of compliance with state health and safety regulations set forth in the marijuana rules and any health standards adopted by the local licensing authority for licensed premises must be provided to licensing staff.
a. If an applicant is applying to add a new license of the same type to a premises already approved by the local licensing authority (for example, a new
retail marijuana
products manufacturer license at a premises already licensed for production of medical marijuana products), and if no alterations or modifications are being proposed for such premises as part of the new application, written comments or a letter from the county or its consultant dated within twelve (12) months of the date of conditional approval of the license may be accepted to demonstrate compliance with applicable health and safety regulations.
3.
Extension for good cause.
At a public meeting, the local licensing authority may extend the sixty (60) day deadline for submittal of the information required in this subsection for good cause.
4.
Failure to comply.
Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be considered grounds for the local licensing authority to summarily suspend the license.
K.
License duration.
Unless revoked or suspended, local licenses shall run concurrently with state licenses. This means that once a conditionally approved license is issued, such license will expire on the same date as the current state license.
(
Ord. No.
2014-02
, §  06/10/2014; Ord. No.
2015-01
, §  12/08/2015; Ord. No.
2017-01
, §  03/07/2017
)
(
Res. No.
2017-08
, §  03/07/2017; Res. No. 2019-18, §  06/25/2019; Res. No.
2020-23
, §  05/26/2020; Res. No. 2021-11, §  04/13/2021
)
Effective on: 5/16/2021