Chapter 18 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article II general provisions
Sec. 18-35  Scope and Administration
Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Residential Code and Chapter 1 of the 2015 International Building Code are deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
(
Res. No. 2004-15, § 1 (Exh. A), 05/24/2004; Res. No. 2017-33, § 18-35, 10/10/2017; Res. No. 2023-15, § 18-35, 06/06/2023
)
Section 109 Fees
109.1 Payment of fees. Any
permit
issued by the La Plata
County
Building
Department
for any
aspect
of a
construction
project
shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
109.2 Schedule of permit fees. Application and any other applicable fees and penalties shall be set by the
Board of County Commissioners
.  All applicable fees shall be submitted with each application.  All fees are cumulative, non-refundable, and will not be prorated if an application is withdrawn, or is
abandoned
.
Permit fees are derived from a combination of processes. Fees can be charged based on a flat fee, flat fee per square foot, or based on valuation of construction
costs
. The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of this
Code
shall be made by the
building official
with reference to valuation information provided by the International Code Council (“ICC”)’s  building valuation data. The value to be used in computing the
building permit
and fees shall be the total value of all construction work (such as foundation work, structural and non-structural building components, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, insulation, and gas and associated plumbing
equipment
and permanent systems, but not including land costs) for which the permit is issued. All building permit and associated fees which contain a fraction of a dollar will be rounded to the next highest dollar.
109.3 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any
owner
or
person
who commences any work on a building,
structure
, or plumbing, mechanical, or gas system before obtaining all necessary permits shall be subject to an investigation fee, in
addition
to the permit fee. The minimum investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by this Code. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person or owner from compliance with all other provisions of this Code or any penalty prescribed by law.
109.4
Plan
review fee. Plans for construction projects will be subject to plan review processes.  Most construction plans are reviewed for Code compliance within the Building Department, however, the building official has the authority to require plan review to be conducted by other County departments or outside agencies or
firms
. When plans are reviewed in the Building Department, the plan review fee is automatically included in the building permit fee.  But where plan reviews are conducted by other County departments, the building official may collect a fee in accordance with that department’s fee structures. Whenever the building official deems necessary the review of a construction project by an outside firm or agency, the property owner or
contractor
shall be required to pay the actual cost of such review.
109.5. Refund policy. Notwithstanding section
18-35
(109.2), when building permits are issued and circumstances prevent the owner from commencing construction the refund of a portion of the original fee excluding costs associated with review and processing of plans, a refund may be granted within 18 months of the issuance date.
109.6 Reinspections. A reinspection fee may be assessed for any of the following reasons:
1.
Any portion of work for which inspection is called is incomplete;
2.
Previously noted corrections have not been made;
3.
The approved plans are not readily available to the inspector;
4.
Failure to provide
access
to the job
site
on the date for which the inspection was requested; or
5.
Deviation from the approved plans.
In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the reinspection fee has been received by the Building Department.
109.7
Waiver
of permit fee for new structures and additions. Building permit fees for new structures and additions are automatically waived for tax-supported governmental entities. In addition, the Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, establish waivers of permit fees for new structures and additions for non-profit organizations. Requests for such waivers by non-profit organizations shall be made in writing and shall explain the applicability of such a waiver. Tax-supported governmental entities and non-profit organizations obtaining a waiver subject to this section shall remain responsible for any plan review fees incurred pursuant to section
18-35
(109.4).
Effective on: 12/11/2017