CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-30 Development improvements agreement
I.
Applicability.
An applicant whose development requires public improvements but who chooses to not construct and complete all such improvements prior to recordation of the plat or issuance of the land use permit shall enter into a development improvements agreement and shall guarantee that such improvements will be constructed in conformance with approved site plans and permits by delivering to the county an irrevocable letter of credit or other sufficient financial commitment approved by the board. The county may also require a DIA and/or performance guarantees for private or common area improvements, including but not limited to on-site landscaping or restoration of preserved natural areas.
II.
Procedures.
A.
Submittal of cost of improvements worksheet. Prior to execution of agreement and submittal of performance guarantee, the applicant shall submit a detailed cost-of-improvements worksheet prepared by a professional engineer or other qualified professionals, as allowed by the director. The worksheet shall contain a breakdown of the costs of the improvements, utilizing unit prices. Persons designated by the board shall review the proposed costs and approve or disapprove the estimates of cost. For work to be accepted by a special district, the district shall review and approve or disapprove the estimates of cost. In the event of disagreement between the applicant and the county or special district, standard industry resources such as RS Means, CDOT's cost data books or relevant bid tabulations compiled by local area governments or businesses through a competitive bidding process within the preceding twelve (12) months shall be consulted and shall establish the standards by which the reasonableness of the estimates are determined. The worksheet shall be signed by both the applicant and the reviewer. The county reserves the right to review and adjust the cost estimates at any time before or after the applicant delivers its performance guarantee. Adjusted cost estimates will be made according to changes in the Construction Cost Index as published by the Engineering News Record. If the county adjusts cost estimates for the improvements, the county shall give written notice to the applicant. The applicant shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice, provide the county with a new or supplemental letter of credit for one hundred twenty (120) percent of the adjusted cost estimate.
B.
Submittal of agreement and performance guarantee. The applicant shall deliver an executed DIA and the required performance guarantee after approval of the plat or permit by the board but before recordation of the plat.
1.
Agreement specifics. The board approves standardized DIAs which may be entered into on behalf of the board by and through the county manager.
2.
Performance guarantee specifics; applicant submits evidence of financial resources. The applicant shall submit satisfactory evidence of adequate financial resources to develop and complete improvements proposed or represented to the board. The applicant shall provide an irrevocable letter of credit or other financial commitment deemed sufficient by the board to ensure that any required public improvements shall be completed or reclaimed as proposed. The letter of credit or financial commitment shall be retained by the county for safekeeping. The letter of credit or other financial commitment shall:
a.
Guarantee funds payable to the county equal to one hundred twenty (120) percent of the total amount specified on the cost of improvements worksheet in the event of the default of the applicant;
b.
Upon default, as determined by the board, the creditor shall pay the county, immediately and without further action, such funds as are necessary to complete improvements up to the limit of funds stated in the documents;
c.
A letter of credit may not be withdrawn or reduced in amount until released by the county.
C.
Responsibility of applicant and security agency. The applicant shall be liable for completion of all improvements as specified in the permit and the standards of the county.
D.
Inspections. The county or the applicable special district may inspect the required improvements during and after construction to ensure satisfactory construction and completion in accordance with the permit and county and special district standards.
E.
Certification of completion. The
applicant
shall file a certification of completion with the
planning engineer
when the required
public improvements
have been completed or prior to any partial or full release of the performance
guarantee
. In no event shall the certification of completion be filed with the
planning engineer
less than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of the performance
guarantee
. The certification shall be completed by the
applicant
and a
professional engineer
and shall certify that:
1.
The improvements have been inspected by the applicant's engineer of record or direct report and special district as required.
2.
All required improvements have been completed in accordance with the approved plans and are safe and adequate.
3.
Improvements are in compliance with the standards specified by the permit and this code as well as with those of affected special districts and servicing authorities and all federal and state laws and regulations.
4.
Neither the applicant nor the professional engineer knows of any defects in the improvements from any cause.
5.
Improvements are free and clear of any encumbrances or liens.
F.
Report to the board. Following the final inspection of the development, the official specified by the board and the applicable special district shall present a statement to the board or, if authorized, the county manager. The statement shall certify whether the required improvements are complete and satisfactory in compliance with the permit and this code.
G.
Action by the board. Upon receiving the report and any other evidence from the applicant, agencies and citizens, the board or, if authorized, the county manager, shall take one (1) or more of the following actions:
1.
Release the performance guarantee. Upon finding that the applicant has completed the improvements as specified in the permit and this code, the board shall approve the release of the performance guarantee.
2.
Reduce the performance guarantee. Upon finding that the applicant has completed a portion of the required improvements, the board may release a portion of the performance guarantee as follows:
a.
No release shall be for an amount less than twenty-five (25) percent of the total amount of the performance guarantee. In no event shall the release reduce the performance guarantee to an amount below that required to guarantee one hundred twenty (120) percent of the costs to complete all remaining work and any other obligation imposed by the DIA or to an amount less than ten (10) percent of the initial performance guarantee.
b.
The performance guarantee covering central water and sewer systems shall not be released until a professional engineer, employed by the applicant, provides a certification stating that the systems have been inspected, that they have been installed as authorized and that the systems are safe and adequate.
3.
Extend the specified completion date. Upon finding a need to extend the specified completion date because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the applicant's control, the board may extend the specified completion date for up to one (1) year beyond the original date provided the letter of credit is similarly extended. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such extension shall not be deemed an extension of the vesting period for a site specific development plan unless specifically requested by the applicant and the board also agrees, in writing, to an extension of the vesting period.
4.
Applicant in default. Upon finding that an applicant has not completed the required development by the specified completion date, or that the improvements are not adequate, the board shall declare the applicant in default. Such declaration shall be in the form of a motion at a meeting of which the applicant has been notified at least ten (10) days prior to such meeting. After finding an applicant in default, the board shall take one (1) or more of the following actions:
a.
Call the performance guarantee. The board may draw on the letter of credit. These funds shall be used to complete the improvements. The work may be completed using county resources or may be contracted out to a private firm.
b.
Initiate plat/permit revocation procedure. The board may initiate the procedure to revoke the plat or permit approval.
c.
Assign proceeds. The board may assign proceeds, if any, collected under an improvement guarantee to any subsequent developer who has acquired the development by purchase, foreclosure or otherwise and who covenants to complete improvements in the subdivision or development. The agreement to assign proceeds, if any, shall only be made after approval of the subsequent developer's plan has been reviewed and approved by the board and after adequate performance guarantee has been provided by the subsequent developer in accordance with the standards of this section. The subsequent developer's obligation to complete improvements pursuant to an agreement under this section shall not be affected by the failure of the county to collect proceeds under the improvement guarantee if the county makes a good faith effort to obtain such proceeds.
d.
Pursue applicant. The board may sue the applicant for specific performance or recovery of any amount necessary to cure the default over and above the amount available under the letter of credit.
e.
Foreclosure. The board may foreclose upon and sell any lot or lots within the permit or subdivision as deemed necessary to recover the amount necessary to pay for completion of the improvements and the county's costs related to the same.
f.
Pursue any other remedy available by law.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 66-30, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020