Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-1-101, La Plata
County
is a county of the fourth class.
Cross reference—
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this
Code
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(3); liquor licensing authority, § 6-31 et seq.;
building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; civil
emergencies
, ch. 22; taxation, ch. 50; administration and enforcement of traffic regulations, § 54-56 et seq.; administration of
undesirable plants
management
, § 58-56 et seq.; administration of land
use
system, ch. 66; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.; administration of roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-41 et seq.; administration of
flood
damage prevention regulations, § 78-51 et seq.; administration of land use and
development
permits
, § 82-51 et seq.; administration of
oil
and gas regulations, § 90-41 et seq.; administration of
subdivision
regulations, § 102-21 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Powers and functions of county, C.R.S. § 30-11-101 et seq.; office hours to be designated by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-10-109.
ARTICLE III. BOARDS, COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Building
board of appeals
, § 18-31 et seq.; child welfare citizen review panel, § 44-31 et seq.; board of adjustment, § 66-21 et seq.;
planning commission
, § 66-41 et seq.
DIVISION 8. LA PLATA COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES COUNCIL
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Emergency
medical services, § 26-66 et seq.
Sec. 2-274. Officers.
I.
Enumeration. The
emergency
medical services council officers
shall
consist of a chairperson, vice-chairperson, and secretary/treasurer. All officers must be voting members of the council, representing their agency.
II.
Chairperson. The chairperson shall preside at emergency medical services council meetings and have general charge over council affairs. The chairperson shall notify the emergency medical services councilmembers of all regular and special meetings.
III.
Vice-chairperson. The vice-chairperson shall preside over emergency medical services council meetings in the absence of the chairperson and shall perform such duties as
may
be assigned by the chairperson.
IV.
Secretary/treasurer. The secretary/treasurer shall see that accurate records of all meetings and transactions of the emergency medical services council are kept and filed. The secretary/treasurer shall see that a list of members, with names, address, agency represented and dates of his membership are kept on file. The secretary/treasurer shall call roll when requested by the presiding officer. The secretary/treasurer shall see that accurate records are kept of all moneys received by the emergency medical services council, and deposit same in such banks as designated by the emergency medical services council, and see that a treasurer's financial report is given at each regularly scheduled meeting, and to sign with the chairperson or vice-chairperson on all necessary papers of the emergency medical services council.
V.
Additional positions. The emergency medical services council at their discretion and with the majority vote of the emergency medical services council may create additional positions that may be needed from time to time. These positions may be temporary, permanent, volunteer or contract. All added positions should have a job description on file at the emergency medical services council office.
VI.
Terms of office. The officers shall serve a term of one year, commencing with their election and continuing until respective successors are elected and qualified.
VII.
Election of officers. Officers are nominated and elected by a majority vote of emergency medical services council present and qualified to vote. Elections shall be held in February of each year.
VIII.
Vacancies. If any position becomes vacant, the emergency medical services council will appoint, by a majority vote, a successor to serve out the remainder of the term.
(Res. No. 1997-59, 10-10-1997)
Effective on: 10/10/1997