Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-9 Event venues
I.
Purpose.
Land uses subject to this section shall generally align with uses which include but are not limited to: fairs, festivals, concerts, car/motorcycle rallies, and permanent wedding venues which reasonably may be expected to attract more than one hundred (100) people, except as exempted below. Establishment of event venues shall be subject to section 66-21 review with applicable standards.
II.
Exempt activities.
The following events or activities are exempt from the requirements of this section. Such activities, however, shall remain subject to all other applicable provisions of this code, including, but not limited to, those governing noise control.
A.
Special events, temporary uses or activities such as weddings occurring within, or upon the grounds of, a private residence or upon the common areas of a multifamily residential development for which no admission or rental fee or other charge is assessed;
B.
Any event sponsored in whole or in part by the county;
C.
Organized activities conducted at permanent facilities typically intended and used for such activities, and/or on a site for which a land use permit has been granted specifically allowing the special event activity, and the operation of the event complies with all permit conditions.
Examples of such exempt activities include, but are not necessarily limited to: sporting events such as golf, soccer, softball, and baseball tournaments conducted on courses or fields intended and used for such activities; wedding services conducted at reception halls or similar facilities; funeral services conducted at funeral homes or cemeteries; religious services, wedding services, and funeral services conducted at a religious institution.
III.
Standards specific to event venues.
A.
Noise. Noise shall not exceed commercial noise standards set forth in section 70-21.
B.
On-site parking. A minimum of one (1) parking space shall be provided for every four (4) seats. If five (5) or more off-street parking spaces are provided, visual screening (fence, wall, landscaping, or combination thereof) from adjacent residential uses shall be required.
C.
Signage. Two (2) on-premises signs shall meet the standards of section 70-20, as applicable.
D.
Hours of operation. Any activity associated with the event venue shall be conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., or as approved by the decision-making body.
E.
Lighting. In instances where security or event lighting is proposed, lighting sources shall be directed inward and away from adjacent properties and be in conformance with standards set forth in section 70-7.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-9, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020