Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE V. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Weight and size limits, C.R.S. §§ 42-4-104, 42-4-106, 42-4-111, 42-4-501—42-4-512.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 42-179. Penalties for violation of article.
Fines and penalties:
Violation
of any provision of this article, or its appendices,
shall
constitute a class 2 misdemeanor traffic offense, and upon conviction, such violator shall be punished by a minimum mandatory fine of not less than $200.00, nor more than $300.00, or up to 90 days imprisonment, or both such fine or imprisonment. Each
vehicle
trip shall constitute a separate offense. For purposes of this section, a vehicle trip means a one-way transit, in any manner, from any point to any point on
county roads
.
Whenever the driver of any vehicle in violation of any provision of this article is not the
owner
but is operating such vehicle with the express or implied consent of the owner, then such owner shall also be deemed to be in violation of this article. Conviction of either the driver or owner shall not bar conviction of the other.
Liability for damages:
No
person
shall drive, operate or move upon or over any
county
road, highway or bridge any vehicle, object or contrivance in such manner so as to cause damage to such road, highway or bridge. When the damage sustained to such road, highway or bridge is the result of the operating, driving or moving of such vehicle, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight authorized by division 4 of this article, or by the appendices to Ordinance No. 1997-1, it shall be no defense to any
action
, either civil or criminal, brought against such person that the weight of the vehicle was authorized by
permit
.
Every person violating the provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be liable for all damages which such road, highway or bridge
may
sustain as a result thereof. Whenever the driver of such vehicle, object or contrivance is not the owner thereof, but is operating, driving or moving such vehicle, object or contrivance with the express or implied consent of the owner thereof, then such owner or driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. The liability for damage sustained by any such road, highway or bridge may be enforced by a civil action as provided in C.R.S. § 42-4-512. No satisfaction of such civil liability, however, shall be deemed to be a release or satisfaction of any criminal liability for the violation of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3(3-11), 9-8-1997)
Effective on: 9/8/1997