Chapter 6 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Fermented malt beverages, C.R.S. § 12-46-101 et seq.; Colorado liquor
code
, C.R.S. § 12-47-101 et seq.
Sec. 6-1 Applicability and Designations
License required
. Any person or entity that is required by the Colorado Liquor Code to obtain a retail liquor store license, liquor licensed drug store license, beer and wine license, hotel and restaurant license, tavern license, brew pub license, club license, arts license, racetrack license, optional premises license, retail gaming tavern license, vintner’s restaurant license, distillery pub license, lodging and entertainment license, fermented malt beverage license, bed and breakfast permit, tasting permit, special event permit, or takeout and delivery permit shall obtain the appropriate state and local license or permit.
Governing law.
Unless additional requirements for applicants and licensees are stated within this Chapter 6, the Colorado Liquor Code, the Colorado Beer Code, the Colorado Department of Revenue Liquor Rules, as they may be amended, regarding procedures for application, hearings, decisions, investigations of violations, and enforcement actions under this chapter shall apply to licenses or permits issued by La Plata County. When additional requirements are listed in this Chapter 6, applicants and licensees must also abide by those listed in this Chapter 6. Unless otherwise defined in this Chapter, the definitions of words and terms used herein shall be given the same meaning as those words or terms are defined in Title 44 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, as may be amended.
Designation of local Liquor Licensing Authority.
The La Plata County Board of County Commissioners shall be the local licensing authority, unless otherwise designated by a resolution of the La Plata County Board of County Commissioners and further defined in this Chapter 6.
Delegation of authority to deputy county manager.
Based upon the review and recommendations of the county licensing coordinator, the deputy county manager is authorized to administratively review and approve an application for liquor license renewals, changes of a manager, temporary permits, temporary modification of premises, and special event permits, where, after reasonable investigation, there is no information obtained or otherwise known by the licensing coordinator or deputy county manager that could support denial of the application under applicable law and in consultation with the County Attorney’s Office, all the following circumstances are found to exist:
Renewals.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid all state and local fees; and
The applicant's license is in good standing with the county and the state, and no violation of law has occurred on the licensed premises during the previous year; and
To the knowledge of the county licensing coordinator, there is no pending or proposed criminal or legal investigation or charges against the applicant or the licensed premises.
Changes of manager
.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid all State and local fees.
Temporary permits
.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid all state and local fees; and
There is an application pending for the transfer of the license; and
The premises subject to the proposed temporary permit is currently subject to a license.
Temporary modification of premises
.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid all state and local fees; and
The applicant has complied with all regulatory requirements pursuant to the Colorado Department of Revenue Liquor Rules 47-302; and
The applicant has complied with any county code requirements.
Special event permits
.
The applicant has timely submitted a complete application and paid the local fees; and
The application is for a qualifying organization; and
The application does not exceed the maximum allowable permits for the organization within a calendar year; and
There has been a proper posting of the application; and
No protest to the application has been timely filed with the licensing coordinator.
Refer to Local Licensing Authority.
Notwithstanding any authority delegated to the deputy county manager under this section, the deputy county manager may, in his or her discretion, refer any licensing or permitting decision to the local licensing authority. The hearing before the local licensing authority shall be noticed as required by law.
Appeal.
All decisions by the deputy county manager under Sec. 6-1.IV shall become final within ten (10) days of the deputy county manager’s decision unless called-up by the local licensing authority or appealed under the requirements of this section or state law.
Appeal by parties in interest
. Any applicant or party in interest, as defined in C.R.S. § 44-3-311, who is dissatisfied with a decision of the deputy county manager may appeal the same to the local licensing authority by filing a written protest with the local licensing coordinator.
Call-up by local licensing authority.
Any decision by the deputy county manager under Sec. 6-1.IV may be called up by the local licensing authority. At the call-up hearing, the local licensing authority shall conduct a de novo review of the application subject to the administrative review.
Appeal process
. Upon receipt of an appeal by a party in interest or notice of a call-up by the local licensing authority, the local licensing coordinator shall promptly set the matter for a hearing before the local licensing authority, which hearing shall be noticed as required by law.
Reports
. The local licensing coordinator shall report to the local licensing authority in a timely manner all actions taken by the local licensing coordinator under this section.
Res. No. 2021-08, § 6-1, 03/09/2021; Res. No. 2022-17, § 6-1.IV(B), 07/26/2022
Effective on: 7/26/2022