Chapter 6 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Fermented malt beverages, C.R.S. § 12-46-101 et seq.; Colorado liquor
code
, C.R.S. § 12-47-101 et seq.
Sec. 6-3 Application requirements
I.
Application
. All applications and supporting documentation shall be filed with the licensing coordinator. Applications must be complete in all material details and include all required documentation. Incomplete applications will not be accepted. Applications which require a hearing must be submitted at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing which the application is to be considered.
II.
Fees required
. No application will be accepted without full payment of the appropriate state and county fees submitted at the time of application. State application license or permit fees are payable to the State of Colorado Department of Revenue and local application license or permit fees are payable to La Plata County. Application fees are non-refundable. Fees to be charged by the county for issuance of liquor licenses and permits, are determined by the board of county commissioners.
III.
Legibility
. All information supplied on applications and requests, except for drawings, plans and specifications shall be typewritten or clearly printed.
IV.
Fingerprints
. Applications for a new license, transfer of ownership of an existing license, change of ownership of an existing license or registration of a manager require submission of fingerprints for all owners, corporate officers, directors and stockholders with more than ten percent (10%) interest and all partners. All persons required to be fingerprinted shall submit a money order or business check made payable to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation along with their fingerprints to the licensing coordinator at the time of application submittal.
V.
Proof of right to possess licensed premises
. The applicant must submit with the application a copy of the deed, lease, contract or other document governing the terms and conditions of occupancy of the licensed premises or proposed licensed premises. The term of any lease must not be for less than one calendar year from the date the license is issued by the state licensing authority. If a lease or rental contract expires during the renewal term, the licensee shall submit a new signed lease or contract to the licensing coordinator no later than (30) days after renewal of the licensed premises.
VI.
Proof of county property taxes paid
. As part of the application review, licensing staff will verify that all county property taxes, including real and personal property, are current. Failure to pay county property taxes may result in the delay or denial of an application.
VII.
Plans and specifications.
Applicants must submit plans and specifications of the premises with the application and shall be 8 ½ by 11 inches in size and shall show the floor plan and layout of the interior of the building where liquor will be sold or consumed and stored. Approval of a license may be conditioned upon an inspection of the property. If a hotel and restaurant license is applied for, plans and specifications shall also show the following: (1) the total floor area where meals will be served, (2) the location of all bar counters, (3) the size and dimension of the kitchen and other food preparation areas, and (4) the location and number of ranges, stoves or ovens, refrigerators, food lockers, dishwashers, sinks and restrooms.
VIII.
Appropriate land use permit and approval by Community Development Department
. The property on which the licensed premises is situated shall comply with the La Plata County Land Use Code for the intended use and no liquor license shall be issued unless the applicant also has an approved land use permit. Staff shall confirm that there are no objections by the Community Development Department, including the building department, to the proposed application.
(
Res. No. 2021-08, § 6-3, 03/09/2021
)
Effective on: 3/9/2021