Chapter 44. Impact Fees
Division 2: Road Impact Fees
Sec. 44-22 Applicability
I.
New development.
Unless otherwise exempted by subsection II of this section 44-22, from and after the
effective date
of adoption of this division, road impact fees shall be imposed on all new development in the
unincorporated
area of the county, at the time of
building permit
issuance or
qualifying land use permit
issuance. A request for an exemption must be made in writing to the
community development department
and included with the county building permit application, or if no building permit is required, such request shall be submitted prior to issuance of the qualifying land use permit.  The request for an exemption shall include any relevant supporting documentation. The community development department may request further documentation in order to make a determination on the request. The community development department shall state its determination in writing whether the exemption is granted or denied.  If the exemption is denied, the reasons for denial shall be provided in the written determination. Unless exempted, any approval of a qualifying land use permit shall include payment of the applicable road impact fee as a condition of approval that must be paid before issuance of the qualifying land use permit.
II.
Exempt development.
The road impact fees shall not be imposed on the following development:
A.
New development that does not increase traffic volumes above estimated historic levels for traffic volumes on the property containing such new development.
B.
Redevelopment, reconstruction or rehabilitation for which a building permit or qualifying land use permit is required that satisfies all of the following:
1.
Replaces but does not increase the number or size of
dwelling units
or the
gross floor area
of non-residential development which existed and which was in active use on the property within the one-year period prior to the reconstruction, rehabilitation or redevelopment; and
2.
Replaces development that legally existed on the property; and
3.
Does not increase traffic generation.
C.
Dwelling units deemed by the director to be qualified low- or moderate-income housing or affordable employee housing units, as evidenced through participation in at least one of the following affordable/
attainable housing
programs:
1.
The county’s revolving loan fund;
2.
The City of Durango’s Fair Share Program;
3.
Habitat for Humanity’s home construction and sale program;
4.
The USDA Rural Development Mutual Self-Help Housing Program;
5.
The federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program;
6.
The Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly program;
7.
The HUD Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program;
8.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Department of Local Affairs, Division of Local Housing;
9.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Middle-Income Housing Authority;
10.
Any affordable or attainable housing program approved by the Colorado Housing Finance Authority (CHFA) to provide
affordable housing
, including but not limited to affordable housing tax credits and the Middle-Income Access program (MIAP);
11.
Any existing county workforce housing program agreement;
12.
Any affordable or attainable housing program which La Plata HomesFund, the Regional Housing Alliance of La Plata County, Housing Solutions for the Southwest, or their respective successors in interest, certifies that such program has adequate procedures that limit the sales and rental costs of dwelling units and verify the incomes of the occupants.
If an exemption is not granted by the community development department, fees assessed for redevelopment, reconstruction, rehabilitation or expansion shall be based on the portion of new dwelling units or new square footage that exceeds the dwelling units or square footage that previously legally existed on the property containing the new development.
Res. No.
2024-31
, §  08/27/2024
Effective on: 8/27/2024