Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-8 Obsolete subdivision
I.
Purpose.
An obsolete subdivision is one in which a substantial number of lots remain undeveloped and do not meet current subdivision requirements, including but not limited to, lot size, environmental conditions, and/or the provision of adequate infrastructure. Obsolete subdivisions may interfere with the orderly development of land within the county, perpetuate obsolete development standards and guidelines, threaten to impose substantial financial burdens on the county, and may create environmental problems and reduce the quality of life for persons who live in or near the obsolete subdivisions. Thus, this section addresses methods for the county to use for the purpose of eliminating interior lot lines of these obsolete subdivisions and preventing obsolete subdivisions from occurring.
II.
Applicability.
This section shall apply to all land that was validly platted at any time in unincorporated La Plata County. Illegal lots, parcels, development, structures, other improvements, signs and/or uses of land throughout unincorporated La Plata County are addressed through other provisions of this code.
III.
County merger of obsolete subdivisions.
A.
Initiation. The county may initiate the process to vacate all or any portion of a final plat of an obsolete subdivision within the county and thereby merge lots upon its own initiative or upon recommendation by the director.
B.
Limitation. The county may vacate only the final plat for that portion of an obsolete subdivision consisting of multiple, contiguous lots that are undeveloped and in common ownership.
C.
Resolution of intent. To initiate the merger process, the board shall adopt a resolution of intent to merge. The resolution shall set forth the reasons that the county desires to merge the final plat, or portions thereof, and shall instruct the director to send notice to the affected property owners as described in paragraph D below. Once a resolution of intent to merge has been adopted by the board, no development plan may be submitted or building permit issued until the matter has been finally decided by the board.
D.
Notice to owners and lienholders. Upon receipt of the resolution of intent to merge, the director shall send notice of the county's intent to merge to each record surface owner and lienholder of the affected parcels by certified mail. The notice shall specify that each owner may request a hearing on the proposed merger and shall specify action to be taken by the owner to request a hearing, including without limitation the requirement that the owner shall request the hearing within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date the notice is received by the owner. At the county’s discretion, it may also provide notice of the county’s intent to merge to any easement holder on the affected parcels and seek consent to vacate the easement if the merger is approved by the board.
E.
Public hearing. Where an owner of an affected parcel has timely requested a hearing on the proposed merger satisfying the requirements of this section, a public hearing on the merger shall be held before the board for the purpose of allowing the board to discuss with the owner of each affected parcel its reasons for proceeding with the merger and to give each owner the opportunity to submit any basis provided under law for challenging the merger.  In such case, notice of the time, place, and manner of the hearing shall be provided to each owner of the affected parcels and published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in a manner sufficient to notify the public of the time, place, and nature of the hearing. The hearing shall take place no sooner than ninety (90) days following the date of the notice required by paragraph D. No merger of parcels that is the subject of a hearing pursuant to this subsection shall be effective unless the owner of the parcels has given their consent to the merger of the parcels.
F.
Failure to request a hearing. Where an owner of an affected parcel fails to timely request a hearing on the proposed merger, no hearing is required, and the affected parcels shall be merged as provided in paragraph D.
G.
Merger of property. Upon conclusion of the hearing required by paragraph D, or upon an affected property owner’s failure to timely request a hearing, the board may, upon a majority vote, approve the merger of the parcels after making a finding that the properties are located within an obsolete subdivision and that the merger of the parcels will promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the county. The resolution approving the merger shall reference the subdivision name and the final plat on record with the county clerk and recorder, and if only a portion of the final plat is to be merged, specifically identifying the parcels to be merged.
H.
Recording. Upon completion of any merger of parcels under this section, the director shall file the resolution in the office of the clerk and recorder.
I.
Effect of merger. After all or part of a final plat for an obsolete subdivision has been vacated pursuant to this section:
1.
The merged parcels may not again be subdivided without first complying with the applicable regulations.
2.
The merger of all the parcels within an obsolete subdivision shall also vacate all county easements and rights-of-way designated on the final plat, unless the resolution of merger specifically identifies public easements or rights-of-way that are not vacated. Merger of parcels shall not have the effect of vacating any other easements not described in this paragraph, which are shown on the final plat, unless the holders of those easements have consented in writing to vacation of the easement.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 67-8, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020