Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
DIVISION 3. AIRPORT ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Note—
See editor's note at division 1.
Sec. 54-74. Penalty assessment procedure.
I.
Penalty assessment notice. When a
person
is arrested for an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-402, as amended, the parking enforcement officer
shall
issue the person a penalty assessment notice and release the person upon its terms. The penalty assessment notice, except as otherwise provided for in this section regarding illegally parked
vehicles
, shall be a summons and complaint containing identification of the alleged offender, specification of the offense and applicable fine, a requirement that the alleged offender pay the fine or appear to answer the charge at a specified time and place, and other matters reasonably adopted effectuating the purpose of this article.
II.
Acknowledgement or denial of guilt. If the person given a penalty assessment notice chooses to acknowledge his guilt, he
may
pay the specified fine in person, by mail or other available payment methods within the time specified in the notice. If he chooses not to acknowledge his guilt, the defendant shall appear as required in the notice. Upon trial, if the alleged offender is found guilty, the fine imposed shall be that specified in the notice for the offense of which he was found guilty along with any customary court costs, which shall be in
addition
to the fine.
III.
Notice on illegally parked vehicle. Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation
of any of the restrictions imposed by this article, the parking enforcement officer finding such vehicle shall take its license plate number and state of registration of the vehicle, and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a penalty assessment notice, which shall indicate the offense or infraction and direct the
owner or operator
of the vehicle to either remit the penalty assessment provided for by this article for the offense or infraction specified along with applicable fine, or to respond to and answer the charge against him at a place and at a time specified in the notice.
IV.
Failure to comply with notice on parked vehicle. If the driver or
owner
of a motor vehicle charged with an apparent violation of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under this article does not respond to a penalty assessment notice affixed to such vehicle, as provided for in this section, by paying the applicable fine either in person, by mail or other available payment methods within the time specified in the notice, the penalty assessment notice shall be transmitted to the clerk of the
county
court as a summons. The summons shall be set for a hearing in county court at the next regularly scheduled date on which the court handles such infractions. The driver or owner of the vehicle may then pay the fine set forth in the penalty assessment notice along with all applicable court costs or request to contest the penalty assessment notice. If the driver or owner of the unattended vehicle chooses to contest the penalty assessment, the court will set a date for the trial.
V.
Presumption in reference to illegal parking. In any prosecution charging a violation of any provision of this article governing the stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of this article, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, § 3(Exh. A), 4-22-2014;
Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 54-74 (Exh. F), 09/27/2022
)
Effective on: 9/27/2022