CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-21 Major land use permit procedures
I.
Applicability.
Section 66-7 establishes the land uses and
development
activities that are subject to a major
land use permit
. Major
land use permit
projects require consideration by the
county
of a
sketch plan
, preliminary plan, and final plan, in that order. Unless a phasing plan was approved as part of a
sketch plan
, a conceptual
development
plan as provided in section 66-29 is required when
development
is proposed in phases and may be processed concurrently with the first phase of the preliminary plan. Each step is a distinct process involving the submittal of an application, an application fee, required plans and reports, referrals of the proposal to other agencies,
staff
analysis, work sessions and public meetings. At each step of the process, the design and engineering detail increases in order to relieve the
applicant
from major and potentially unnecessary expenses in situations that may require a redesign and a revision of expensive engineering or planning reports. Approval of any application in the process does not ensure approval of the next application. Figure 66-21 A below provides an overview of the applications that are required for the review of major
land use permits
.
II.
Common procedures for major land use permit preliminary plan.
Figure 66-21 B below identifies the application steps that apply to the review of a preliminary plan.
III.
Lapse of approval.
A.
Lapse of approvals. An approved sketch plan shall lapse and be of no further force and effect if the applicant fails to submit the preliminary plan within one (1) year of the date of the sketch plan approval by the PC. An approved preliminary plan shall lapse and be of no further force and effect if the applicant fails to submit the final plan within one (1) year of the date of the preliminary plan approval by the board.
B.
Lapse of phased elements. If the approved preliminary plan provides for phasing of final plan approvals, failure to obtain approval of a final plan for any phase within the time specified in the approved phasing plan shall result in a lapse of the preliminary plan. For phased projects, an approved final plan for any phase of the preliminary plan shall extend the life of the preliminary plan according to the approved phasing plan, or if not specified in an approved phasing plan, for an additional one (1) year from the date the most recent final plan was approved. If successive final plans are not submitted within this one (1) year period, or within the period specified in an approved phasing plan, then the preliminary plan approval shall lapse and be of no further force or effect for those portions of the subject property not covered by an approved final plan.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 66-21, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020