Chapter 67 Division of Land
Sec. 67-9 Boundary adjustments and lot consolidations
I.
Applicability.
Boundary adjustments are adjustments of property lines that do not create any additional lots or parcels. A lot consolidation includes the deletion of existing property lines. All boundary adjustments and lot consolidations are subject to county review according to this section except where all existing and proposed lots are and will be greater than thirty-five (35) acres and no such existing lot, regardless of the acreage, has been shown on a plat signed by the chair of the board.
II.
Procedures.
Boundary adjustments and lot consolidations shall be processed according to the administrative land use permit procedures in section 66-18.
III.
Approval criteria.
The approval criteria for boundary adjustments and lot consolidations are the general approval criteria for land use permits outlined in section 66-16 and following specific criteria:
A.
Boundary adjustment and lot consolidation shall only be required to meet the following standards rather than standards generally applicable to other developments requiring an administrative land use permit:
1.
Water. Proof of water pursuant to section 70-4 shall be required if an adjusted or deleted property line directly and negatively impacts a lot’s water source or infrastructure.
2.
Sewer. Proof of sewer pursuant to section 70-3 shall be required if an adjusted or deleted property line directly and negatively impacts a lot’s method of sewage disposal. Unless served by a central sewer system, a boundary adjustment or lot consolidation resulting in a proposed lot less than one (1) acre shall be considered directly and negatively impacting the lot’s method of sewage disposal.
3.
Driveway; access. A new driveway permit and proof of legal access complying with chapter 74 shall be required if an adjusted or deleted property line directly and negatively impacts a lot’s current access.
4.
Legal lots. All existing lots shall be legal lots of record.
5.
Lot design specifications. The proposal shall not cause a new violation or failure to comply with this code, except as otherwise specifically allowed by subsection IV below in the AVLUP. All proposed lots shall conform to the lot design specifications set forth in subsection 67-15.III unless the existing lot is nonconforming pursuant to chapter 79. Lot consolidations may include existing nonconforming lots regardless of the proposed lots’ resulting acreage. Boundary adjustments may only include existing nonconforming lots so long as not increasing the degree of nonconformity.
IV.
Nonconforming lots in the Animas Valley River Corridor District.
The following additional provisions shall apply to boundary adjustments for nonconforming lots within the River Corridor District of the AVLUP only. An applicant may submit a boundary adjustment application to adjust the boundaries of existing, adjacent nonconforming lots of record, subject to compliance with the following procedures and approval criteria:
A.
The review process shall follow the administrative land use permit procedures in section 66-18, except that the director shall refer the application to the board, who shall take final action on the boundary adjustment plat.
B.
The boundary adjustment shall be subject to the following additional approval criteria:
1.
The resulting lots allow for no more dwelling units than originally allowed for on the two (2) parcels;
2.
The resulting lots are no smaller than twelve (12) acres;
3.
The plat shall designate minimum building setbacks of fifty (50) feet from all property lines;
4.
The board may require specific building envelopes to be designated on the boundary adjustment, if it finds that such envelopes are reasonably necessary to mitigate adverse visual or other impacts on the Animas River or public roads, or to mitigate adverse impact on wetlands, wildlife, or agricultural operations.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 67-9, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020