Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-17 Sexually oriented businesses
I.
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to serve the substantial government interest of protecting and preserving the quality of life and vitality of the county as a tourist destination, place of business, and home to its residents by establishing reasonable time, place and manner restrictions on the location and operation of sexually oriented businesses without prohibiting sexually oriented businesses or constitutionally protected speech.
II.
Applicability.
These standards shall apply to land use permit applications proposing a new sexually oriented business or the modification of an existing sexually oriented business.
III.
Standards specific to sexually oriented businesses.
A.
Setbacks. The following minimum setbacks shall apply to all facilities associated with a sexually oriented business:
1.
From the property lines of a lot or parcel containing another sexually oriented business: one thousand (1,000) feet;
2.
From the property lines of a lot or parcel containing one or more dwelling units or otherwise designated for residential use: one thousand (1,000) feet;
3.
From the property lines of a lot or parcel containing any school, childcare center, religious institution, public park or playground, or building owned or operated by a governmental entity providing services to the general public: one thousand (1,000) feet.
B.
Visibility.
1.
Advertisements, signs, displays, live displays, or other promotional materials showing or depicting a specified sexual activity or a specified anatomical area shall not be shown or exhibited to be visible or audible outside of the building.
2.
Each building entry, window, and doorway shall be located, covered, or screened in such a manner as to prevent the interior of such premises from being viewed from outside of the building.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-17, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020