Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
DIVISION 3. AIRPORT ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Note—
See editor's note at division 1.
Sec. 54-71. Owner liability for parking violations.
In
addition
to any other liability provided for in this article, the
owner
of a motor
vehicle
who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting motor vehicles is liable for payment of a parking
violation
fine unless the owner of the leased or rented motor vehicle can furnish sufficient evidence that the vehicle was, at the time of the parking violation, in the care, custody or
control
of another
person
. To avoid liability for payment, the owner of the motor vehicle is required, within a reasonable time after notification of the parking violation, to furnish the prosecutorial division of the appropriate
jurisdiction
, the name and address of the person or company who leased, rented or otherwise had the care, custody or control of such vehicle. As a condition to avoid liability for payment of a parking violation, any person or company who leases or rents motor vehicles to another person
shall
attach to the leasing or rental agreement a notice stating that, pursuant to the requirements of this section, the operator of the vehicle is liable for payment of a parking violation fine incurred when the operator has the care, custody or control of the motor vehicle. The notice shall inform the operator that the operator's name and address shall be furnished to the prosecutorial division of the appropriate jurisdiction when a parking violation fine is incurred by the operator.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, § 3(Exh. A), 4-22-2014)
Effective on: 4/22/2014