Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE III. SNOW EMERGENCIES
Contents:
Sec. 54-171. Declaration; towing of vehicles obstructing county right-of-way.
Sec. 54-172. Durango Hills Road Improvement District.
Secs. 54-173—54-205. Reserved.
Sec. 54-171. Declaration; towing of vehicles obstructing county right-of-way.
During extreme snow conditions, upon the recommendation of road and bridge
staff
, the
board of county commissioners
, the
county
director
of
emergency
preparedness or the county manager
may
declare a snow emergency in all or any part of the county. If a snow emergency is declared by the board of county commissioners, the county director of emergency preparedness or the county manager, the provisions in subsection (II) of this section
shall
become effective for as long as the snow emergency lasts. The public will be notified of the snow emergency declaration through the local media by county administrative staff. When the snow emergency is over, the public will be informed in the same manner.
In extreme snow conditions, it becomes necessary to expedite the removal of
vehicles
from the county
right-of-way
which are an obstruction to snow plows. In these circumstances, the following procedure will be enacted:
The road and bridge director of maintenance recommends to the county manager and/or the county director of emergency preparedness that a snow emergency is declared.
The board of county commissioners, county manager or the county director of emergency preparedness may declare a snow emergency in all or any part of the county. If a snow emergency has been declared, the assistant to the county manager will notify the public of the snow emergency declaration through the local media of emergency towing procedures.
The road and bridge director of maintenance advises the sheriff's office watch commander that a snow emergency exists. The sheriff gives permission to the road and bridge
department
to utilize this emergency protocol procedure for the towing of vehicles obstructing the county right-of-way.
Once permission from the sheriff, or his designated representative, has been obtained, and once the public has been notified of the emergency status, county snowplow operators will identify vehicles obstructing the right-of-way and interfering with snow removal operations.
Snowplow operators will call the road and bridge shop to have vehicles towed. Snow plow drivers will provide the following information to the road and bridge shop: make and model of the vehicle, license plate and location of the vehicle.
The road and bridge shop calls a towing company to have vehicle towed. (Road and bridge shop will rotate towing assignments among local towing operators.) Road and bridge shop will take note of the following information:
Make and model of the vehicle, license plate and location of the vehicle.
Which tow operator was assigned and where the vehicle will be towed.
Date and time of towing request.
The road and bridge shop will immediately communicate this information by telephone to central dispatch and the sheriff's department watch commander. In
addition
, the road and bridge shop will periodically fax this information to dispatch and the sheriff's department watch commander. The road and bridge shop will also maintain this list of information for reference purposes.
When the snow emergency is over, the road and bridge director of maintenance will so notify the county manager and/or the county director of emergency preparedness, either of whom will lift the snow emergency. The board of county commissioners may also lift the snow emergency. If not previously notified, the board of county commissioners, sheriff, county manager and/or administrative assistant shall likewise be informed. Proper notification will then be given to the public through the local media.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the sheriff, or his designee, may at any time exercise his authority pursuant to C.R.S. § 42-4-1803 to cause any vehicle in the county right of way that obstructs traffic or maintenance to be towed and may authorize any road and bridge department employee to tow any such obstructing vehicle, whether or not a snow emergency has been declared.
(Res. No. 1997-7, 2-10-1997; Res. No. 2001-49, § 1, 12-20-2001)
Effective on: 12/20/2001
Sec. 54-172. Durango Hills Road Improvement District.
In
addition
to any other law prohibiting the same, it
shall
be unlawful to
park
or abandon any motor
vehicle
within the
right-of-way
of roads located within the Durango Hills Road
Improvement
District in any manner that obstructs or impedes the flow of vehicular traffic within such roads rights-of-way or obstructs or impedes snow removal from such road rights-of-way, or other necessary road maintenance operations.
The
county
sheriff's office is authorized to approve the towing of vehicles in
violation
of subsection (I) of this section, or any other applicable statute, at the expense of the
owner
of the vehicle in accordance with C.R.S. § 42-4-1803(2) and C.R.S. § 42-4-1801 et seq.
The county sheriff is hereby authorized and requested to coordinate with the Durango Hills Road Improvement District personnel and to develop a protocol for reviewing requests for tow authorization from such district.
(Res. No. 1995-10, 1-30-1995)
Effective on: 1/30/1995
Secs. 54-173—54-205. Reserved.
Effective on: 1/30/1995