Chapter 50 TAXATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes, charges, rates or fees saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(7); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11); administration, ch. 2; lodging tax committee, § 2-461 et seq.; financial matters, § 2-741 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Rental tax by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-11-107.7; taxation, C.R.S. § 39-1-101 et seq.
ARTICLE IV. SALES AND USE TAX
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
A one percent sales tax was levied in resolution number 1975-102 and adopted by referendum on December 16, 1975, and a one percent sales tax was levied by resolution number 1982-16 and by referendum on May 11, 1982, which resolution has been codified in this article and updated to include the total levy of two percent.
State Law reference—
Sales and
use
tax authorized, C.R.S. § 39-26-101 et seq.
Sec. 50-138. Intergovernmental agreement for disbursements from the joint sales tax fund.
The following is the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Durango, Colorado, and the
Board of County Commissioners
of La Plata
County
, Colorado, pertaining to the expenditures and disbursement of the joint sales tax fund:
"This intergovernmental agreement is made and entered into this sixth day of February, 1990, by and between the City of Durango, Colorado, a municipal home-rule corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), and the Board of County Commissioners of La Plata County, Colorado (hereinafter referred to as the "County"):
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the City and County have historically provided funding for
projects
and
facilities
of mutual and joint benefit (hereinafter "jointly funded projects"); and
WHEREAS, the County adopted Resolution 1982-16 on March 29, 1982, in conjunction with the proposal for the imposition of an additional one percent (1%) County-wide sales tax which was subsequently approved at a special election held on
May
11, 1982; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Resolution 1982-16 provided for the allocation of four percent (4%) of the additional revenue collected by the County through the imposition of the additional one percent (1%) County-wide sales tax to the City of Bayfield; and for the allocation of three and one-tenth percent (3.1%) of said additional sales tax revenue to the Town of Ignacio; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Resolution 1982-16 provided for an allocation of twenty-two percent (22%) of the additional revenue collected by the County through the imposition of the additional one percent (1%) County-wide sales tax to the funding of various contracts, bonds, warrants and agreements therein specifically designated which had been historically funded by both the City and the County; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Resolution 1982-16 further provided for the joint funding of additional projects by mutual agreement between the City and the County; and
WHEREAS, certain of the designated bonds, contracts, agreements and warrants have expired, and it is the mutual intent and desire of the parties to set forth their understanding and agreement with regard to the future collection, expenditure, and disbursement of the twenty-two percent (22%) of additional revenue generated through the imposition of the County-wide one percent (1%) sales tax approved by the electorate on May 11, 1982 (hereinafter referred to as the "joint sales tax fund"); and
WHEREAS, both the City and County are authorized to accomplish statutorily authorized functions or objectives or to provide statutorily authorized facilities cooperatively pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. § 29-1-201 et seq., as amended.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants, conditions, and obligations herein set forth, the parties agree as follows:
1. The County
shall
create and maintain a separate account within the County budget designated as the "Joint Sales Tax Fund Account." There shall be credited to this account, annually, an amount equal to twenty-two percent (22%) of the additional one percent (1%) sales tax imposed pursuant to the special election of May 11, 1982. Credits to this account shall occur as and when sales tax receipts are received by the County.
2. Funds held within the Joint Sales Tax Fund Account shall be disbursed annually to such projects as may, by annual agreement between the City and the County, be designated as joint funded projects, eligible for funding pursuant to this Agreement. The amounts applied to said projects shall be used to defray, in equal amounts, the County portion and the City portion of the amounts totally budgeted for said projects.
3. If the amount credited to the Joint Sales Tax Fund Account is not sufficient to defray the total amounts necessary for funding of projects designated by the City and County as jointly funded projects, any additional amounts to be paid shall be budgeted at the discretion of the governing bodies of the City and County, respectively.
4. If the amounts credited to the joint sales tax fund are in excess of the amounts necessary to fund previously and mutually approved jointly funded projects, such excess shall be carried as a fund balance in the Joint Sales Tax Fund Account unless the parties mutually agree that such excess be divided into equal shares and distributed at the close of the fiscal year to the City and County, respectively. The fund balance shall never exceed a maximum amount of $250,000.00 at the end of the fiscal year. Any interest earned on the fund balance shall be credited to the Joint Sales Tax Fund Account. Any unexpended funds remaining after the maximum fund balance has been attained, in excess of funds which the parties have agreed to expend on jointly funded projects, shall be distributed in equal shares to the City and the County, at the close of the fiscal year in which the excess funds were received.
5. Nothing herein shall be deemed to restrict the discretion of the governing bodies of the City and the County in approving budgets for projects eligible for funding pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
6. The terms of this Agreement shall fully supersede and replace the terms and provisions of Section 7(a) of Resolution No. 1982-16, adopted by the County on March 29, 1982, as previously amended by Resolution No. 1984-142, adopted by the County of September 4, 1984.
7. Neither the City nor the County shall make any allocation or appropriation of joint sales tax funds for solid waste disposal
site
and facility
development
and/or operational requirements unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
8. This Agreement shall become of full force and effect upon the City, in accordance with the terms of that certain Memorandum of Agreement between the City and the County, dated February sixth, 1990, entitled Landfill Site Acquisition and Development, commencing operation of an approved solid waste disposal site and facility (landfill); provided, however, nothing herein contained shall be construed as a waiver or relinquishment, by the City, with respect to its claim of entitlement to joint sales tax funds pursuant to La Plata County Resolution 1982-16 should the commencement and operation of an approved solid waste disposal site not occur pursuant to said agreement of February 6, 1990.
9. Upon this Agreement becoming effective it shall be binding upon the respective parties hereto and shall remain in full force and effect as long as the County collects or receives sales tax revenues from the one percent (1%) sales tax imposed pursuant to the special election of May 11, 1982, it being the intent and understanding of the parties that the amount to be credited annually to the joint sales tax fund shall be the equivalent of twenty-two percent (22%) of the revenue generated by the one percent (1%) sales tax imposed as a result of said special election of May 11, 1982.
10. This agreement constitutes the full and integrated understanding of the parties. No prior or contemporaneous promises, representations, understandings, terms, or conditions, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement shall be of any legal force or effect unless embodied herein in writing. This Agreement may only be amended by the written mutual agreement of the parties.
Effective on: 3/29/1982