Chapter 68 Planned Unit Developments
Sec. 68-6 PUD approval criteria
In addition to the applicable standards set forth in chapters 70-74, as the same may be waived or modified by the board to fulfill the purposes set forth in section 68-1, the decision-making body shall consider the following approval criteria and find that each criterion has been met or determined to be inapplicable:
I.
The PUD is supported by all owners whose properties are included within the PUD.
II.
The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan.
III.
The PUD demonstrates the provision of a public benefit or amenity.
IV.
The PUD complies with all applicable statutory provisions.
V.
To ensure compatibility among the various land uses in the PUD, and among the various phases of the development, the plan addresses the entire land ownership in a comprehensive manner and demonstrates the entire PUD will function as an integrated whole when complete. In cases where conflicts between uses or phases are identified, increased setbacks, design buffers, changes to elements considered within compatibility, and similar mechanisms may be required to ensure the desired compatibility.
VI.
The proposed development will be serviced by adequate public facilities and services, including water, sanitation, and fire protection.
VII.
The PUD is compatible with and will not have a material adverse impact on the surrounding area; and will be in harmony and compatible with the adjacent properties including, but not limited to, size, scale, mass and landscaping.
VIII.
The real property is suitable for the intended use, is compatible with the natural environment and natural hazards will not be increased as a result of the development.
IX.
The PUD provides for unified development control under a unified plan.
X.
The PUD preliminary plan and PUD guide provide a clear assumption of responsibility for maintaining all roads, streets, parking areas, open spaces, and other public and common facilities in the project.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 68-6, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020