Chapter 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-9. Certain ordinances or resolutions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this
Code
or the ordinance or resolution adopting this Code
shall
be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following when not inconsistent with this Code:
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred before the effective date of this Code.
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
county
or authorizing the issue of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness or any contract, right, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument or obligation assumed by the county.
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code.
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution.
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county.
Any appropriation ordinance or resolution.
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes, charges, rates or fees.
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of
vehicles
or
loading zones
.
Any rezoning ordinance or resolution or amendment to the zoning map.
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county.
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor.
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any plat or
subdivision
in the county.
Any ordinance or resolution establishing positions, classifying positions, setting salaries of county officers and employees or any personnel regulations, or any ordinance or resolution regarding pension or retirement plans, funds or benefits.
Any temporary or special ordinances or resolutions.
All such ordinances or resolutions described in subsection (I) of this section are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code and are on file in the office of the clerk to the
board
of county
commissioners
.
(Res. No. 1997-61, 10-14-1997)
Effective on: 1/1/1901