Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-13 Right to farm and ranch policy
I.
Purpose
. Agriculture as a way of life benefits all residents within La Plata County. It is an important part of the economy and adds intrinsic value to life in the county. Agriculture brings with it noise, odors, dust, mud, smoke and other perceived inconveniences, such as ditch and field burning, machinery and livestock on public roads, odors from manure and feeds, odors from chemical applications, lights and noises at all hours of the day and night, and on-farm processing and marketing of crops and livestock. Those with urban sensitivities may perceive such activities, sights, sounds and smells as inconveniences. However, state law and county policy protect most agricultural practices from unnecessary, intrusive litigation.
II.
Authority.
State law and county policy provides that no inconvenience shall be considered a nuisance so long as it occurs as part of non-negligent and legal agricultural practices as stated in C.R.S. § 35-3.5-101
et seq
.
III.
Performance standards
. The county may impose conditions upon the approval of any development to ensure that it does not adversely affect adjacent or near-by agricultural operations, and to ensure that such development does not limit the viability of the agricultural operations. Conditions may address and mitigate, among other things, potential nuisance or liability issues, predation of stock by domestic dogs, traffic conflicts, interference with irrigation, proliferation of undesirable plants and rodents, erosion, and wildlife intrusion.
IV.
Plat notes.
In appropriate projects, the decision-making body may require a plat note providing notice that Colorado is a right to farm state.
V.
Fence law
. Colorado is a fence out law state. Owners of real property shall fence livestock out prior to recovery of damages for trespassing livestock, pursuant to C.R.S. § 35-46-101
et seq
. In appropriate projects, the decision-making body may require a plat notice that Colorado is a fence law state.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 70-13, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020