CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-1 General applicability
I.
Land use permit required.
Unless otherwise expressly exempt, waived or adjusted by the provisions of this code, all land development in the unincorporated areas of the county, including but not limited to: land subdivision, establishment of new land uses, and changes in land use, shall be subject to a requirement for a land use permit or other land development approval as specified in this code.
II.
Director authority to determine applicable permit procedure
. Where it is unclear what land use permit procedure should apply to a proposed development, or if it is unclear whether a proposed land use or development activity is exempt from the land use permit requirements, the director shall have the authority to determine the applicable county review procedure, if any. The director shall, upon the request of any interested party and under the procedures for a director determination stated in section 66-17, determine which permit procedure, if any, best fits the proposed use or activity. To determine the appropriate permit procedure for a use not clearly or specifically identified in chapter 66, the director shall consider definitions of uses found in chapter 62, chapter 65 for uses located within applicable districts or areas, and the specific use standards stated in chapter 73 and sections 66-3 to 66-8. A proposed use/activity shall be substantially similar to other uses requiring a specific level of permit review (or exempt).
III.
Permit required prior to development activity.
Any applicable land use permits shall be obtained prior to site preparation, excavation, erection, construction, reconstruction, development, redevelopment, occupancy, alteration, relocation, change of use, or intensification of use of any development and/or structure. It shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause any of the above without a required land use permit. The grant of a land use permit for a specific development shall not exempt the development from compliance with any and all applicable state or federal statutory or regulatory requirements, including the issuance of any required state or federal permits.
IV.
Permits denied or withheld.
The decision-making body shall deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new project or application under this code where the applicant or the applicant’s agent has failed or refused to comply with this code.
V.
Increase or decrease in the level of land use permit review.
The director, after a use review under section 66-25, shall have the ability to increase the level of required land use permit where, in the discretion of the director, there appears to be outstanding issues pertaining to compliance with this code, or the public health, safety or welfare. At any time prior to final decision on an application, the director may increase the level of required land use permit where, in the discretion of the director, a different level of permit review is required or a proposal is being used to avoid compliance with otherwise applicable standards or procedures. The director may issue a director determination letter decreasing the level of required land use permit or granting a waiver to any requirement in this code in the following circumstances:
A.
To eliminate a substantial burden on religious exercise as guaranteed by the federal Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000;
B.
To provide reasonable accommodations for protected groups under the federal Fair Housing Act;
C.
To comply with any other state, tribal or federal law.
VI.
Building permits may be required.
The county land use permits identify and allow certain land uses to be undertaken on a property and are separate and distinct from building permits. Issuance of a land use permit does not affect or otherwise supersede the requirement to obtain a building permit for structures pursuant to the county building code, although a building permit may not be required in all cases where a land use permit is issued.
VII.
Representations in applications and hearings.
All representations made in an application for a land use permit, variance, or waiver that are necessary for compliance with any standard are binding. All oral, written and graphic representations made in the course of hearings before the PC, JPC, BOA, board or other appropriate body shall be considered a part of the application. Any false or inaccurate information given in a land use permit or development application, or in other representations to the staff or in the course of a hearing may be grounds for the decision-making body to deny, suspend or withdraw any approval of a plan or plat, or to require that certain corrective measures be taken as described in chapter 80. However, minor defects in information that do not substantively affect the accuracy of the representations made in the application shall not invalidate a permit or approval if the director determines the applicant has made a bona fide attempt to provide truthful, accurate information. The applicant, by accepting the benefits of a permit, also certifies, to the best of their knowledge, that the permit application materials are true and correct.
VIII.
Phased or serial development.
Phased or serial development, whether or not initially disclosed by the applicant, shall not be used to circumvent or avoid compliance with this code. For any phases or potential serial development, the director may recommend to the decision-making body conditions of approval that document baseline conditions and require applicants for subsequent phases or serial development to analyze and comply with code standards based on the projected cumulative impacts of all phases of the development. For subsequent phases or serial developments, including developments in which an initial phase was not analyzed or approved as an initial phase of a multi-phase or serial development, the director may recommend to the decision-making body that the cumulative impacts of the entire phased project or serial development be analyzed to determine the appropriate improvements, mitigation, conditions or other factors affecting all or any portion of the cumulative development's compliance with this code.
IX.
Uses with minimum acreage qualifications.
Except in instances where the reduced acreage is due to condemnation (or sold under circumstances where condemnation is legally permissible), any use permitted on a parcel subject to meeting minimum acreage qualifications shall maintain such minimum acreage as a condition of the permit. In the event the area of the parcel is reduced in area below the minimum qualifying acreage, the reduction shall be considered a violation of this code and subject to the provisions of chapter 80 unless a new land use permit, if any is available under the code, is obtained.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-1, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020