Chapter 73 Standards and Additional Submittal Requirements for Specific Uses
Overview
The specific uses addressed in this chapter require particular attention for a variety of reasons. Although many uses have the potential to impact neighbors by generating noise, dust, odor, light, traffic or other potential nuisances, some uses require evaluation and mitigation efforts beyond those established more generally elsewhere in the code. By way of example, some uses present additional concerns to the health, safety and welfare of the community at large that justify special attention in this chapter. Other uses addressed in this chapter warrant special attention in order to accommodate unique technical considerations or to coordinate the county’s interests with regulations and standards set at the state and federal levels. Some uses addressed in this chapter present opportunities to promote the county’s interest in the use by allowing different standards than those generally applicable.
Sec. 73-20 Special events
I.
Purpose.
This section applies to special events that do not occur at a special event venue and identifies standards for conducting special events. The purpose of these regulations is to manage the conduct of special events to protect the public health and safety, and to preserve the value and enjoyment of surrounding areas and neighbors.
II.
Exceptions.
A special event shall require an administrative land use permit pursuant to section 66-18 unless one of the following applies:
A.
The special event is a private function not exceeding forty-eight (48) hours occurring at a private residence or upon grounds of a multifamily residential development for which no admission or rental fees or other charges are assessed. Examples of such private events include but are not limited to weddings, funerals, estate sales/auctions and family gatherings.
B.
The special event is reasonably expected to attract less than fifty (50) vehicles or one hundred (100) people including hosts, guests, staff employees, and/or independent contractors.
C.
The special event occurs at a permanent facility for which a land use permit has been granted specifically allowing such activities, and the special event complies with all permit conditions of approval. Examples of such events include but are not limited to sporting events and equestrian competitions in facilities intended and permitted for such activities.
III.
Standards specific to special events.
An applicant for an administrative land use permit for a special event shall ​follow the process established in section 66-18. Application requirements for an administrative land use permit for a special event shall not be limited as set forth in section 66-18 but rather shall be determined by the director based on the specific proposed special event and the following standards:
A.
Water. Sufficient potable water shall be provided unless the director determines that no potable water is necessary.
B.
Sewer. Adequate sewage disposal shall be provided. The director may require that applicant receive written confirmation of adequacy from LPCPH.
C.
Access. Legal access shall be demonstrated and the applicant shall comply with sections 42-31 through 42-34, including but not limited to the provision of proof of insurance, liability coverage, operational and traffic control plan and an emergency management and communication plan. In instances where the special event provides access from a county road and the quality or integrity of the road surface may be negatively impacted by traffic attributed to the special event, the applicant may be required to post a performance bond in an amount equal to that necessary to restore the road to its original condition after conclusion of the event. When more than two hundred and fifty (250) people including hosts, guests, staff employees, and/or independent contractors are expected to be in attendance at the special event, the applicant shall provide a temporary emergency access to be used for emergency purposes to the event site.
D.
Parking. Adequate parking facilities shall be required. The director may consider proposed use of buses and traffic control personnel to determine adequacy. Parking shall be contained on the property and shall not be within public right-of-way.
E.
Noise. Noise associated with the special event shall not exceed the commercial maximum permissible levels pursuant to section 70-21.
F.
Odor. Odor generated onsite from the special event shall not produce adverse or noxious odors as perceived at the special event’s property line.
G.
Dust. Dust generated onsite shall not impact surrounding properties. Where non-paved roads are used to access the special event, the special event site or within the subject parcel, adequate dust suppression techniques shall be applied.
H.
Vibration. All equipment and structures associated with the special event shall, when applicable, be anchored or constructed so transmission of vibrations is not detectable on surrounding properties through the ground or air.
I.
Lighting. In instances where security or special event lighting is proposed, lighting sources shall be directed inward and away from adjacent properties and be in conformance with standards set forth in section 70-7. Lighting utilized for the special event shall not produce brightness to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance as seen from the public right-of-way or from surrounding properties.
J.
Setbacks. All temporary structures shall meet commercial setback requirements pursuant to section 70-6.
K.
Maintenance of existing character. The special event should not unreasonably impact the existing characteristics and conditions of the area. If the special event will unreasonably impact the existing character or conditions of the area, the applicant shall undertake temporary measures to mitigate the adverse impacts created by the event.
L.
Daily duration. The daily duration and time of the special event activities shall be limited to the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
M.
Set up for event. Set up for the special event shall occur up to no more than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of the special event.
N.
Length of event. A special event shall not exceed seventy-two (72) hours.
O.
Clean up and removal of temporary structures. All trash and refuse, as well as temporary structures shall be removed from the property within seventy-two (72) hours of the conclusion of the approved special event.
P.
Calendar year limitations. A property shall not have more than three (3) administrative land use permits issued for special events per calendar year and no more than one (1) administrative land use issued on a property concurrently.
Q.
Safety plan. Adequate health and safety measures and services, which include but are not limited to coordination with emergency medical services, law enforcement and fire protection shall be demonstrated. The applicant shall submit a detailed safety plan that addresses the nature of any health or safety risk presented by or at the event and proposed preventative, pre-cautionary or mitigation measures. The applicant shall coordinate with the local fire district and other applicable entities as appropriate to develop the plan.
R.
Public health and safety. If any of the following conditions occur or arise after the date of approval of a special event permit and affect the conditions of the permit or the nature of the event, the permit shall be subject to the temporary suspension and permanent revocation procedures in section 80-5 or the postponement provisions in subsection 73-20.V:
1.
Natural or manmade disaster;
2.
Epidemic or pandemic;
3.
Fire or board adopted fire restrictions;
4.
Limitations of or burden on government services due to any of the conditions set forth in this subsection;
5.
Breakdown of emergency services communication.
IV.
Notice.
Notice to surrounding landowners shall contain a description of the special event, number of attendees, a site plan identifying activity locations, the date(s) and duration of the event, contact information for the CDD, and a date by which the comments must be submitted. Posted notice shall contain date(s) and duration of event, and a brief description of the event. The applicant shall provide proof of compliance with the noticing requirements no more than five (5) business days after the application submission. The director may require the applicant to send additional notices to landowners or agencies.
V.
Postponement of special event permit.
In addition to the temporary suspension and permanent revocation procedures in section 80-5, the decision-making body may postpone the event previously approved under this section. The decision-making body may postpone an event for any of the causes listed in paragraph III.R above.
A.
Unless there is imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare as described in paragraph B below, before postponing or delaying an event, the county shall give the permittee written notice of the postponement. The permittee may appeal the postponement to the board within ten (10) days after the date of the postponement decision. If the permittee fails to timely appeal, the postponement shall become final. Appeals shall be promptly decided by the decision-making body; however, the event may not occur while an appeal is pending.
B.
In the event that there is an imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare as a result of the event or which will be exacerbated by the event, the county may summarily postpone the event without prior notice to the permittee. The county shall notify the permittee of such summary postponement on the same date such decision is made and such decision shall be deemed final.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 73-20, 09/15/2020; Res. No.
2023-27
, § 73-20, 11/21/2023
)
Effective on: 1/1/2024