Chapter 90 OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Res. No. 2008-33, § 1(Exh. A), adopted November 17, 2008, amended chapter 90 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, chapter 90 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from LPLUS, § 8.1.1—8.1.5.b, 8.1.6.a—f., 8.1.7—8.1.10, 8.1.12, 8.1.14.a—g., 8.2.1—8.2.6, 8.3; Res. No. 1998-34, § 1, adopted October 5, 1998; Res. No. 1999-9, § 2, adopted February 22, 1999; Res. No. 2001-33, adopted August 27, 2001; Res. No. 2004-20, § 1, 2, adopted June 28, 2004; Res. No. 2004-35, §§ 1—10, adopted December 20, 2004, and Res. No. 2008-30, §§ 1, 2, adopted November 12, 2008.
Cross reference—
Buildings
and building regulations, chapter
18
; public places, ch
apter
38
;
development
standards and specifications,
chapter
74
;
floods
, ch
apter
78
; land
use
regulations for public property,
ch
apter
94
;
subdivisions
,
ch
apter
102; zoning,
ch
apter
106.
Sec. 90-18 Violations and enforcement
I.
Applicability of Chapter 80.
This chapter shall be enforced in accordance with chapter 80 of the code except as follows:
A.
Inspections.  In addition to the entry and inspection rights set forth in section 80-4, the following entry and inspection provisions shall apply:
1.
Inspections by the county.  Inspections to ensure compliance will be coordinated with the operator to allow operator presence on site and to ensure the site visit is conducted in accordance with all applicable operator safety requirements. Inspections in response to odor, noise or possible violations of permit conditions, or these regulations, may occur as soon as feasible upon receipt of the complaint. Unless urgent circumstances exist, the county will use best efforts to give four (4) hours prior notice to the operator’s contact person at the telephone number on file. The county reserves the right to increase required inspections if an operator is found to be non-compliant.
2.
Any attempt to refuse entry to, impede, obstruct, delay, or in any manner interfere with a lawful inspection, shall constitute grounds for revocation of the permit in addition to any other penalties permitted by this code.
B.
Notice to correct violations.  The notice to correct violation under paragraph 80-5.I.A shall be sent by email to the most recent email address provided by the operator in an annual report as well as by certified mail, return receipt requested to the operator’s mailing address on file with the
CDD
. If no email or mailing address is on file with the CDD (such as in instances in which no county permit has been obtained), the notice to correct violation under paragraph 80-5.I.A may be sent by email to the most recent email address provided by the operator to the
ECMC
and by certified mail, return receipt requested to the operator’s or surface owner’s mailing address on file with the CDD, ECMC, or as listed in the records of the county assessor’s office. The operator shall respond to the notice to correct within forty-eight (48) hours and provide any proposed remedy or defense to the notice to correct.
C.
False or inaccurate information.  The provisions of section 80-7 shall similarly apply if any applicant for an oil and gas permit supplies false or inaccurate information to a decision-making body or new significant information is brought to the decision-making body’s attention at any point during the process or after the issuance of a permit.
D.
Sanctions and remedies.
1.
For purposes of sanctions and remedies under section 80-6, whenever a violation determination or stop order is issued for a violation that is related to protecting and minimizing
adverse impacts
to public health, safety, welfare, the environment and wildlife resources, the director may, but is not required, to issue a fine up to fifteen thousand (15,000) dollars for each violation and for each separate day.  Days of violation shall be calculated in the manner described in ECMC Rule 525.b.1 through 4.  In considering the appropriate fine, the director shall consider the following mitigating and aggravating factors:
a.
Whether the violation resulted in threatened or actual impact to public health, safety, welfare, the environment or wildlife resources and the degree to which it did so.
b.
Whether the violation threatened or impacted livestock, wildlife resources, aquatic resources, soil, crops, a water source, waters of the state or other environmental resources and the degree to which it did so.
c.
The degree of threatened or actual damage that occurred.
d.
The size of any leak, release or spill.
e.
The toxicity of the leak or spill.
f.
Whether any persons were harmed.
g.
The duration of the violation.
h.
Whether the same or similar violations have occurred at the location previously.
i.
Whether the operator has a history of violations of any applicable rules of similar or different types, at the location or others.
j.
The timeliness and adequacy of the operator’s correction actions.
k.
The degree the violation was outside the operator’s reasonable control and responsibility.
l.
Whether the operator acted with gross negligence or knowing and willful misconduct.
m.
Whether the operator self-reported and the nature and promptness of the response by the operator.
n.
Self-audits or compliance monitoring done by the operator.
o.
Whether the operator was cooperative with all agencies involved in working to mitigate the impacts of the violation.
2.
Payment of fines.  Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the director, an operator will pay the imposed fine by certified funds within thirty (30) days of the director’s notice of the imposition of the fine, unless the board grants a longer period under the appeal process or unless the operator files for judicial appeal, in which event payment of the fine will be stayed pending resolution of such appeal. An operator’s obligation to comply with this code, orders or permits will not be stayed pending resolution of an appeal, except by court order. If a fine is not timely paid or otherwise stayed pursuant to this subparagraph, the county may call upon the operator’s financial assurance to satisfy the fine and require that adequate financial assurance be replenished by a date certain.
3.
Appeal of fine.  The fine imposed by the director may be appealed according to the procedures described in subsection 80-5.IV and may also be combined with an appeal of a stop order or violation determination.  When considering the appropriateness of the fine, the board shall review the criteria set forth in subparagraph 90-18.I.D.1.
II.
Remedies cumulative.  The remedies set forth in sections 80-6, 90-14 and 90-18 shall be cumulative and shall in no way limit the director’s, board’s or county attorney’s authority to seek any other remedy available at law or equity for violations of this code.
(
Res. No.
2023-11
, §  04/26/2023
)
Effective on: 8/1/2023