Chapter 46 SOLID WASTE
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Solid waste advisory committee, § 2-591 et seq.;
buildings
and building regulations, ch.
18.
State Law reference—
Abatement of nuisances, C.R.S. § 16-13-301 et seq.;
dumping
rubbish
, etc., C.R.S. § 18-4-511; solid waste recycling, C.R.S. § 25-17-101 et seq.; regulations regarding nuisances, C.R.S. §§ 25-1-611—25-1-622; general regulations by ordinance, C.R.S. § 30-15-401; Colorado
noxious weed
act, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-101 et seq.; nuisance
weed
abatement, C.R.S. § 35-5.5-113.
ARTICLE II. COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Littering of
public or private property
, C.R.S. § 18-4-511; authority to prohibit and abate nuisances, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(a)(I); solid waste disposal
sites
and
facilities
, C.R.S. § 30-20-100.5 et seq
DIVISION 3. CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
Sec. 46-71. Application.
Generally. Applications
shall
conform to all of the applicable requirements as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-21-101 et seq., and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, 6 C.C.R. 1007-2, being the "Regulations pertaining to Solid Wastes Disposal
Sites
and
Facilities
." At a minimum, such application shall set forth the location of the site and facility; the type of site and facility; the type of processing to be used; transfer stations plans, the hours of operation; the method of supervision, including but not limited to training of operators, hazardous materials screening program; the initial rates and rates to be charged over the life of the site and/or the methodology for the establishment of rates over the life of the site; evidence of financial ability and plan of the
applicant
to comply with all applicable local, state or federal requirements through post-closure monitoring and/or environmental remediation, if required; health and safety plans; such engineering, geological, hydrological and operational data as
may
be required or requested by the state
department
of health. Evidence shall also be submitted concerning the effect that the solid wastes disposal site and facility will have on the surrounding property, taking into consideration the types of processing to be used, surrounding property uses and values, and wind and climatic conditions; the convenience and accessibility of the solid wastes disposal site and facility to potential users; the ability of the applicant to comply with the health and environmental standards and operation procedures and such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the state, federal and
county
agencies with
jurisdiction
; copies of any and all contracts with any governmental
unit
for the generation, transportation or disposal of solid wastes and for the operation of any solid wastes sites and facilities; copies of any contracts with any private solid waste transporters, generators and/or operators; the types of solid or liquid waste to be disposed of at the site; methods of possible proposed methane production, monitoring disposal or usage; air and groundwater monitoring plans; landscape aesthetic and buffering plans; fire protection plans and agreements; detailed and complete traffic impact and mitigation plans and agreements;
wildlife
protection plans and agreements; whether and which hazardous, asbestos, incompatible, industrial, radioactive, biohazardous, medical or infectious wastes shall be accepted at the site; fencing; the type and quantity of waste transport
vehicles
owned or operated by the applicant; an indemnification agreement with the county; proposed performance bonds; personal, property and environmental liability insurance plans and policies; estimated yards of waste per day; incineration and recycling operation plans and agreements; plans and agreements for waste stream reduction; composting plans; scrap tire processing and recycling plans and agreements; plans for the
control
of noxious odors; and the prevention of rodent and insect breeding and infestation; solid waste to energy plans and agreements; recordable surveys, plats and any and all information or submittal requirements as contained in the county
permit
system and appendices pertaining to
class II applications
for a land
use
permit. The applicant shall also present evidence that the approval shall be consistent with the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county, and shall supply the site specific information requested by and through the pre-application conference procedures set forth in subsection (b)(1), below.
Site-specific pre-application conference.
Not less than 15 days prior to the submission of an application for a certificate of designation is made, the applicant shall arrange to meet with the county manager, the county attorney, the
director
of the planning department, the county
engineer
, the director of the road and bridge department, and any other appropriate
staff
members as designated by the county manager, in an informal pre-application conference. The purpose of the pre-application conference shall be to: (i) identify proposed site and operation specific information, data, special studies, and submittal requirements in
addition
to those set forth in subsection (I), above, and (ii) establish an application review fee which shall be based upon the anticipated costs of such review. Under appropriate circumstances, and subject to ratification by the
board of county commissioners
, the county manager may direct that certain information and submittals required hereunder, and not otherwise required by statute or regulation, may be submitted prior to the hearing for the certification of designation before the board of county commissioners, or waived as inapplicable. Prior to acceptance of any application for a certificate of designation said recommended fee and site specific submittal waivers, if any, as determined by the county manager shall be ratified and confirmed, rejected, revised, or conditionally approved by the
board
of county
commissioners
.
(Res. No. 1992-29, § 1(Exhibit 1), 5-27-1992; Res. No. 2004-20, § 2, 6-28-2004; Res. No. 2008-30, § 2, 11-12-2008)
Effective on: 11/12/2008