Chapter 50 TAXATION
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes, charges, rates or fees saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(7); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11); administration, ch. 2; lodging tax committee, § 2-461 et seq.; financial matters, § 2-741 et seq.; fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Rental tax by resolution, C.R.S. § 30-11-107.7; taxation, C.R.S. § 39-1-101 et seq.
ARTICLE II. PROPERTY TAX
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Property tax, C.R.S. § 39-1-101 et seq.
DIVISION 2. ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
FOOTNOTE(S):
State Law reference—
Arbitration, C.R.S. §§ 39-8-108, 39-8-108.5; rules of arbitration established by
county
, C.R.S. § 30-10-302.
Sec. 50-57. Hearings.
Assignment. Upon payment of the fees and the filing of the petition, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator selected in accordance with these rules.
Scheduling. Arbitration hearings
shall
be held within 60 days from the date the arbitrator is selected. The hearings shall be at a time mutually agreed upon by the arbitrator, the assessor and the taxpayer and not exceed one day.
Procedures. The arbitrator shall preside at the hearing. Arbitration hearing procedures shall be informal, and strict rules of evidence shall not apply except as deemed necessary by the arbitrator in the interest of justice. All questions of law and fact shall be determined by the arbitrator. The arbitrator
may
determine time limitations or make other decisions in order to conduct a reasonable and fair hearing. Arbitrators should not perform independent appraisals, investigations or other fact gathering functions. The arbitrator's duty is simply to hear and evaluate the information presented by each party and make a decision based thereon. Arbitrators should not discuss a case with any party in the absence of the other party.
Order of proceedings:
All testimony in arbitration proceedings shall be given under oath, administered by the arbitrator.
An opening statement, if desired by the arbitrator, shall be presented. The party initiating the appeal shall proceed first.
Presentation of evidence by the
county
.
Presentation by any other party or
person
admitted to appear.
Final arguments, if desired by the arbitrator, or direction to submit briefs, if desired by the arbitrator.
The arbitrator may, in his discretion, alter or amend the order of proceedings at any time and in any manner deemed appropriate and proper under the circumstances.
(e) Subpoenas. The arbitrator may issue or cause to be issued subpoenas for attendance of witnesses and for the production of books, records, documents and other evidence and shall have the power to administer oaths. Subpoenas so issued shall be served and, upon application to the district court by the taxpayer or county
board
of equalization or the arbitrator, be enforced in the manner provided by law for service and enforcement of subpoenas in civil
actions
. Both the taxpayer and the
board of county commissioners
shall file with the arbitrator and serve a list of witnesses and exhibits ten days before the arbitration date.
(f) Parties attendance. The taxpayer and county board of equalization shall be entitled to attend, personally or with counsel and participate in the proceedings. Such participation may include the filing of briefs and affidavits. If a party fails to be present at a hearing after having been given due notice, the arbitrator may discuss the case with any party who is present.
(g) Public participation. The hearing can be open to the public; however, upon agreement of both parties, the proceedings may be confidential and closed to the public.
(h) Record of proceedings. No record of the proceedings is required.
(Res. No. 1996-33, § 1(3F), 11-25-1996)
Effective on: 11/25/1996