Chapter 63 Administration and Review of Roles
Sec. 63-3 Joint planning commission
I.
Established.
There is hereby established a county joint planning commission for development projects within the
joint planning area
, pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 30-28-105 and the intergovernmental agreement between the county and the City of Durango.
II.
Membership.
The JPC shall consist of six (6) members, three (3) of whom shall be current members of the City of Durango planning commission and three (3) of whom shall be current members of the PC. The City of Durango shall designate the three (3) members from the City of Durango planning commission and the PC shall designate the three (3) members from the PC. The members may be designated for a term or solely for each JPC meeting.
III.
Quorum, officers and bylaws.
A.
Four (4) members of the JPC shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is present, the decision of one (1) or more members to abstain from voting thereon shall not be deemed to constitute less than a quorum for the transaction of business. Action of the JPC shall be by majority vote of those voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. A tie vote constitutes a denial of the proposed action by the JPC.
B.
The JPC shall elect a chair from its members, whose term shall be for one (1) year. The JPC may create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary.
C.
The JPC shall be empowered to adopt such bylaws governing its procedure as it may consider necessary or advisable.
IV.
Compensation.
Members of the JPC shall receive no compensation for their services, except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred, subject to applicable provisions of the state statutes and procedures for reimbursement of expenses as approved by the board.
V.
Records of proceedings.
The JPC shall keep a record of its proceedings, which record shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times pursuant to the policies and procedures of the county.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 63-3, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020