Chapter 100 SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Sec. 100-7. Reporting requirements.
Contact
persons
; business address. On or before January 15 of each year, a special district
shall
notify the
BOCC
, the
county
assessor, the planning
director
, the county treasurer, and the county clerk and recorder of the name of the chairman of the
board
of the special district, the contact person, the telephone number, and the business address of the special district. If such persons and address are not located within the special district, the special district shall notify the county clerk and recorder of the name, address, and telephone number of a contact person located within the special district, if such person is available.
Annual reports. For the first five years after the organization of a special district or the material modification of an existing service plan and for succeeding annual periods if requested by the BOCC, the special district shall file an annual report with the BOCC, the division of local government, and the state auditor. Such annual report shall be deposited with the county clerk and recorder for public inspection, and a copy of the report shall be made available by the special district to any interested party pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 32-1-204(1).
The annual report shall include the following:
A narrative summary of the progress of the special district in implementing its service plan for the report year and any major changes in the financial status of the special district;
The audited financial statements of the special district for the report year including the independent auditor's report on the financial statement audit,
management
's discussion and analysis, basic financial statements and notes, required supplementary information and combining and individual fund presentations and supplementary information, and all single audit schedules. If the special district has requested exemption from audit pursuant to C.R.S. ยง 29-1-604, a copy of the application for exemption form and all supporting schedules that were filed with the state auditor;
A summary of the capital expenditures incurred by the special district during the report year and of the proposed expenditures for capital
improvements
within the next five years;
A summary of the financial obligations of the special district at the end of the report year, including the amount of the outstanding indebtedness, the amount and terms of any new indebtedness issued in the report year, the amount of payment or retirement of existing indebtedness of the special district in the report year, the total assessed valuation of all taxable properties in the special district as of January 1 of the report year, and the current mill levy of the special district pledged to debt retirement in the report year;
The budget for the report year;
A summary of
residential
and commercial
development
in the district for the report year;
A description of any changes in the boundaries of the district, any changes in district policies or district personnel, and any other material operational changes;
A summary of all fees, charges, and assessments imposed by the special district as of January 1 of the report year; and
The name, address, and telephone number of each member of the board of the special district and its
chief
administrative officer.
The BOCC
may
review the annual reports in a regularly scheduled public meeting, with the review included as an agenda item in the public notice for such meeting.
Failure to file. If a special district fails either to file the information required by subsection (I) or the annual report required by subsection (II) within nine months of the date of the request for such information, the BOCC, after notice to the affected special district, may notify the county treasurer holding moneys of the special district and authorize the county treasurer to prohibit release of any such moneys until the special district complies with such requirements.
(Res. No. 2010-21, ยง 1(Exh. A), 4-20-2010, Res. No. 2017-11)
Effective on: 3/23/2017