CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-25 Use reviews
I.
Applicability.
Whenever an administrative, minor or major land use permit would otherwise be required, but the existing permitted use on the property is substantially similar to the proposed use, the director may perform a use review and issue a director determination letter for the proposed use if the general approval criteria for a director determination and specific approval criteria for a use review are met.
II.
Procedures
. Use reviews shall follow the common procedures for a director determination in accordance with section 66-17.
III.
Approval criteria.
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be in conformance with the general approval criteria under section 66-16 and the following specific approval criteria for a use review:
A.
The existing use is a conforming use;
B.
The location, size, volume, intensity, compatibility and operating characteristics of the proposed use are the same or substantially similar to the existing use;
C.
The proposed use will not violate, modify, alter or require a change in a condition of approval of the existing use;
D.
The proposed use is legally and practicably able to maintain compliance with the conditions of approval of the existing use and achieve and maintain compatibility with existing, adjoining land uses to the same extent as the previously approved existing use.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 66-25, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020