Chapter 38 PUBLIC PLACES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Aviation, ch. 14; roads and bridges, ch. 42; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54; vegetation, ch. 58; natural resources, ch. 90; land
use
laws for public property, ch. 94; zoning, ch. 106.
ARTICLE II. FAIRGROUNDS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Editor's note—
Section 3 of Res. No. 2006-11, adopted February 14, 2006, deleted Chapter 38 in its entirety and substituted the provisions contained within Res. No. 2006-11 and those of Res. No. 2006-09 as the current fairgrounds provisions. Formerly, article II pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Res. No. 1997-41, § 1(1—7), adopted July 14, 1997.
Approved formats of fairgrounds contracts are on file with the clerk to the
board
. Copies may be obtained from the fairgrounds office.
Sec. 38-32. Administration of fairgrounds fees.
Fees for
use
of fairgrounds
facilities
shall
be charged in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the
county
board of county commissioners
. Exceptions to the fee schedule are as follows:
I.
Complimentary use of meeting facilities are extended to:
• CSU Cooperative Extension Office and Extension-sponsored programs such as 4-H;
• The sixth judicial district court and probation offices;
• Agencies funded by the county;
• The county fair and fiesta days and committees thereof;
• Any agencies that provide direct or corollary services to county government such as, but not limited to, the Colorado Mounted Rangers, American Red Cross, La Plata County Search and Rescue and San Juan Sledders;
• Events sponsored by non-profit groups that directly serve youth such as, but not limited to, Boyscouts, Girlscouts, and Big/Brothers/Big Sisters.
II.
The
department
director
responsible for supervising the fairgrounds is authorized to use his or her discretion to provide complimentary or discounted use of facilities for:
• Local, state and federal organizations;
• Community-based efforts that are short-term and coalesce to address an immediate need (e.g.,
flood
relief);
•
Community
holiday meals sponsored by local civic or faith-based organizations; and
•
Project
Merry Christmas.
III.
In the event that a request is made for use of the facilities for which a fee has not been established, the department director responsible for supervising the fairgrounds is authorized to use his or her discretion to establish an appropriate charge specific to the intended use.
IV.
In the event of ambiguity in the fee schedule, the department director responsible for supervising the fairgrounds shall utilize his or her best judgment to administer fees in a fair and consistent manner.
V.
Special exceptions (such as, but not limited to, complimentary use of the rooms for funerals of community dignitaries or county employees or members of their
families
)
may
be authorized by the county manager on a case-by-case basis.
(Res. No. 2006-11, § 2, 2-14-2006)
Effective on: 2/14/2006