Chapter 54 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinances or resolutions prescribing through streets, parking and traffic regulations, speed limits, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or
loading zones
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(8); public places, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42;
recreational vehicles
, § 86-41 et seq.
State Law reference—
Authority to regulate the parking and movement of motor vehicles, C.R.S. § 30-15-401(1)(h).
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
DIVISION 2. COUNTY ROAD ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
Note—
See editor's note at division 1.
Cross reference—
Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 54-60. Penalties for violations of article.
I.
On any
county
road or public property within the county where official signs are posted giving notice of stopping, standing or parking restrictions or prohibitions as authorized in this article and described in this article, no
person
shall
stop
,
stand
or
park
a
vehicle
in any manner in
violation
of the provisions contained on such signs except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control
device.
II.
A vehicle with distinguishing license plates or an identifying placard indicating that the occupant of such vehicle is a person with a disability, as defined in section 54-131,
may
be parked along
county roads
regardless of any time limitation imposed by official signs upon parking in such area; except that such privileges shall not apply to zones in which:
A.
Stopping, standing or parking of all vehicles is prohibited at all times;
B.
Only special vehicles may be parked; or
C.
Parking is not allowed during specific periods of the day in order to accommodate heavy traffic.
III.
It is a violation to park upon any county road or part of a county road designated as a
snow route
so as to impede snow removal operations which are imminent or in progress.
IV.
Any person who violates any designated parking control zones commits an offense as set forth in C.R.S. § 30-15-402, as amended, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as follows:
A.
Violation of no parking, standing or stopping zones .....$8.00
B.
Violation of restrictive parking zones .....8.00
C.
Violation of
loading zones
.....5.00
D.
Violation of tow-away zones in conjunction with any of the other parking control zones .....16.00
E.
Violation of tow-away zones in conjunction with snow route zones .....16.00
F.
Violation of any other zones not previously designated .....8.00
V.
Whenever any vehicle is located in a designated tow-away zone, the law enforcement officer may, if he deems such vehicle is in violation of such zone, cause such vehicle to be towed as follows:
A.
Vehicle in violation of designated area on county roads within the county shall be towed to the storage
lot
operated and maintained by the towing operator.
B.
Towing charges and applicable storage charges, if any, shall be paid before or at the time of release of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2014-1, § 3(Exh. A), 4-22-2014;
Ord. No.
2022-01
, § 54-60 (Exh. F), 09/27/2022
)
Effective on: 9/27/2022