Chapter 20 procurement code
ARTICLE II PROCUREMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
County
procurements
must be authorized and supported by available and
budgeted
funds. To ensure that these and other procurement criteria are delegated and satisfied, responsibilities of various individuals are defined in this article II.
Sec. 20-22 Finance director/contract manager
I.
Authority
. The procurement division operates as a division of finance under the direct management of the finance director and is staffed with the
contract manager
and contract procurement specialist(s).
A.
The procurement division shall have the authority required to meet all the
procurement
and
contract management
duties and responsibilities identified and implied in this
code
. Specifically, procurement will:
1.
Manage and facilitate the appropriate use of the contract forms and required clauses approved by the county attorney; and
2.
Manage all
standard
and
simplified purchase
contracts from notices to proceed to
contract
closure, including the timely receipt of appropriate certificates of insurance.
B.
All authority and discretion assigned to the contract manager in this code shall be exercised in collaboration with and subject to the review and approval of the finance director and, where appropriate, the county attorney.
II.
Duties and responsibilities
. In addition to specific duties identified in this code, the finance director shall:
A.
Determine, with
BOCC
approval, the county’s procurement policies and define and enforce the processes and practices required to implement those policies;
B.
Ensure that the county manager and county attorney are timely notified of all procurement-related matters requiring their approval, knowledge, input, or handling as defined throughout this code;
C.
Ensure that an adequate number of
qualified vendors
are solicited to compete for both
standard
and
simplified purchases
;
D.
Maintain an open and competitive environment to ensure that all potential
buyers
and sellers have access to county business and that all procurement actions are conducted fairly and impartially in the
best interest of the county
;
E.
Conduct all standard purchase competitive solicitations on behalf of the county through contract
award
and issuance of a notice to proceed;
F.
Assign
purchase order numbers
to all standard and simplified purchases properly submitted as
purchase requisitions
by departments or
elected officials
;
G.
Administer the disposal of all surplus county property in accordance with article III;
H.
Receive and ensure proper handling of all requests for waivers of these code provisions, all
solicitation
protests, and all contract claims, and make any requisite determinations about adherence to this code;
I.
Provide quarterly procurement activity reports to the County Manager in accordance with section 20-21(III);
J.
Ensure that all county procurements remain in compliance with applicable law;
K.
Provide reasonable assistance to any department, elected official, employee or
vendor
on any procurement-related matter;
L.
Review and approve
sole source justifications
prior to award;
M.
Promptly notify the county manager and county attorney of any bid protest that is filed and prepare for and appear on behalf of the procurement division in any hearings;
N.
Promptly notify the county manager and county attorney of any contract claim that is filed; and
O.
Comply with the duties and responsibilities that apply to all county employees, as set forth in section 20-25(II).
(
Res. No. 2020-24, § 20-22, 12/17/2020
)
Effective on: 1/1/2021