Chapter 80: Enforcement and Penalties
Sec. 80-7 Subdivision violations
I.
False or inaccurate information provided, and final plat not recorded
. The board may take appropriate action to deny, suspend or withdraw any approval of a plan or plat, or to require that certain corrective measures be taken, following a determination that the information provided by the applicant upon which such approval was based is materially false or inaccurate or that new significant information has been brought to the board’s attention. The action may occur at any step in the platting process prior to the recording of the final plat and shall take place at a regular public hearing. The board shall determine at the hearing the nature and extent of the alleged false or inaccurate information, shall consider any new significant information that has been brought to its attention, and shall have the authority, upon good cause being shown, to deny the plan or plat or suspend or withdraw any approval or require corrective measures to be taken. No final action authorized by this section shall be taken unless the applicant is notified of and, if present at the public hearing, has an opportunity to respond to the proposed denial, suspension, withdrawal, or corrective action.
II.
False or inaccurate information provided, and plat recorded
. If it is determined after a plat approved by the board is filed for recording that the plat approval was based on materially false or inaccurate information, the board may take appropriate action to withdraw or reconsider the approval, to require corrective measures, or to void the plat, after a public hearing where adequate notice and opportunity to be heard are given to the applicant, any successor property owners, and any affected adjacent property owners, review agency, or service providers.
III.
Enforcement of plat restrictions.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-137(4), the board or any purchaser of any lot or tract shall have the authority to bring an action for injunctive relief to enforce any plat restriction (including all obligations contained in documents required to be executed and recorded as part of the final plat approval and all commitments of record of the applicant related to the county's approval of the final plat), plat note, plat map, or provision of a development improvements agreement, and for damages arising out of failure to adhere to any such plat restriction, plat note, plat map, or provision of a development improvements agreement.
IV.
Sale of lots before plat recording.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-110(4), it is unlawful to transfer legal or equitable title or sell any subdivided land as defined by this code before a final plat for the real property has been approved by the decision-making body and recorded with the county clerk and recorder. Any applicant or agent thereof who violates this provision is guilty of a misdemeanor. The county may also seek to enjoin any violations of this provision. The county shall not be liable for any direct or apparent fiscal losses suffered by any person as a result of denial of any subdivision, or disruption of a transfer or sale, where the applicant has agreed to transfer or sell or offered to transfer or sell any subdivided land in advance of plat approval by the decision-making body.
V.
Authority to withhold land use and building permits.
In addition to any other enforcement action specified in this code, pursuant to C.R.S. § 30-28-110(4)(a), the building official or the director is authorized to withhold or demand the withholding of the issuance of any building permit or related permit under this code sought or requested for real property for which a final plat (or equivalent) has not been approved or recorded or which is in violation of the approved final plat (or equivalent), including any plat note, condition or restriction or any commitment of record in the county's final plat (or equivalent) approval file.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 80-7, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020