CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-38 Economic development area designations
I.
Applicability.
This section establishes a process by which the county may designate particular geographical areas as being subject to specialized land use regulations for commercial, industrial, or mixed residential/commercial development. Designation of a particular economic development area as being subject to specialized land use regulations may be initiated by the board, the PC, the director, or by any person or collection of persons who own real property within the area to be designated.
II.
Procedures.
Figure 66-38 below identifies the steps that apply to the designation of economic development area. In the AVLUP, an EDA shall be designated using the process for rezoning set forth in section 66-37 followed by recording a designated EDA as set forth in this subsection 66-38.II.
Figure 66-28: Summary of Economic Development Area Designation Procedures
III.
Approval criteria.
The PC and board shall consider the following, at a minimum, when designating a particular economic development area as subject to specialized land use regulations, and in their respective actions, shall enter findings relative to each of the following elements:
A.
Existing or potential for infrastructure. The intensity and type of current and foreseeable development in the area, including an analysis and evaluation of the availability of water, wastewater treatment, and capacity of the roadway to adequately serve the development area within five (5) years as demonstrated by either the servicing entity or existing services.
B.
Rationale and need for designation. The purpose and need of the proposed designation, with a demonstrated need for the designation, in the location proposed, to serve the area’s existing and projected development.
C.
General compliance with comprehensive plan or technical study. Any technical study that may have been conducted regarding the proposed designation. The designation is in general conformance with the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, including applicable district plans.
D.
Natural environment and resources. The proposed area shall not adversely impact the natural environment or resources within the surrounding area, which includes but are not limited to: archeological or cultural sites, existing wildlife habitat and migration corridors, and wetlands and riparian areas.
E.
Services. The applicant shall submit an evaluation of the expected demands and effects of the development on the ability of local governments and quasi-governmental agencies to provide services including but not limited to fire protection, schools, and law enforcement.
F.
Compatibility assessment. The proposed uses shall be assessed for compatibility pursuant to section 70-5. To achieve compatibility, some parcels within the proposed economic development area may be more limited than others as to the types of permitted uses.
G.
Proposed boundaries and use types. The property, when considering the proposed boundaries of the area proposed for designation, is suitable for the intended uses and comports with the criteria listed above in this subsection.
H.
Economic development. The proposed
uses
have the potential to provide a benefit to the local economy including, but not limited to: increased projected revenues, increased value or productivity of land, and opportunities for economic diversification.
IV.
Submittal requirements
. In addition to the general land use permit application submittal requirements set forth in section 66-10 and section 66-11.I., applicants proposing the designation of an economic development area shall also submit the following:
A.
A map identifying the real property for designation;
B.
A list of all real property proposed for designation, including assessor parcel numbers and names and addresses of owners of record for all identified real property;
C.
Identification of any owners of real property within the proposed EDA with whom the applicant has consulted and the respective positions, whether in favor or against, such owners;
D.
A written description of the proposed type of development and uses to be permitted;
E.
A narrative identifying how the proposed location satisfies the approval criteria for designation of an EDA.
V.
Effect of designation
.  Property owners within a designated EDA have the benefits of the administrative review of permitted uses but are not restricted from pursuing future development through the applicable land use permit application process pursuant to this code.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, § 66-38, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020