CHAPTER 66: PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
Overview
This chapter describes the common procedures for
county
review of all land development activity in the
unincorporated
areas of La Plata County and the specific procedures for the review of
land use permits
and other types of applications.
The provisions common to all permit and
development
review covered in this chapter include, among other things, pre-application procedures, submittal requirements, public notice, scope of
county
review, public meetings and appeals.
This chapter also includes the unique procedural review requirements or steps for most individual types of
land use permit
applications and the rules that will apply to an application once it is approved, such as the life of the
development
approval, expiration, and amendments.
The specific procedural steps for divisions of land are in chapter 67 and for
planned unit developments
in chapter 68.
Sec. 66-23 Cooperative planning area development
I.
Applicability.
The procedures in this section shall apply to the review of applications within a cooperative planning area designated pursuant to section 64-5.
II.
Procedures. Figure 66-23: Cooperative Planning Area Development Review
,
below, identifies the application steps that apply to cooperative planning area development review.
III.
Approval criteria.
The approval criteria for cooperative planning area development shall correspond to the type of project.
IV.
Joint Planning Area.
Referral to City of Durango on eligibility for annexation and water service.
A.
Annexation.
1.
Referral to and review by the City of Durango. Applications for joint planning area development shall be referred to the city for a determination on eligibility for annexation and central water service. The city shall have thirty (30) days to review and comment on annexation eligibility and central water service.
2.
Eligible properties. If the property is eligible for annexation, the application for joint planning area development shall not be processed by the CDD until it receives written notice from the city that:
a.
The owner of the property subject to the application does not desire annexation and there is no other basis for involuntary annexation under C.R.S. § 31-12-107;
b.
The city does not desire to annex the subject property;
c.
Annexation of the subject property has been denied;
d.
The city did not receive comment on eligibility within the time frame referenced in subparagraph 66-23.IV.A.1. above; or
e.
Annexation is not required pursuant to subsection 66-23.V. below.
3.
Ineligible properties. If the property is not eligible for annexation, the application for joint planning area development shall be processed by the CDD.
4.
Notwithstanding anything in this section 66-23 to the contrary, the board acknowledges that no annexation within the exterior boundaries of the Southern Ute Indian Tribe's (SUIT) reservation may proceed, even if the property is eligible, unless the SUIT provides approval for the annexation pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-12-105(1)(i). In order to prevent unreasonable delay, and if the director determines, in the director's sole discretion, that an applicant in unlikely to receive the required approval from the SUIT within a reasonable time after the application, the director may choose to treat the subject property as an ineligible property pursuant to subparagraph 66-23.IV.A.3 above.
Res. No.
2025-7
, § 66-23, 03/04/2025
B.
Water.
1.
Implied consent agreements. If the application for joint planning area development is not eligible for annexation but is either required pursuant to section 70-4 to connect to or proposes to connect to the city's central water system, an executed implied consent agreement between the property owner and the city shall be required, unless a determination is made pursuant to subsection 66-23.V. below that an implied consent agreement is not required.
2.
Applications proposing public water systems. Any application for joint planning area development that proposes use of a public water system shall meet and confer with the city. The city shall have sixty (60) days from the date of the meeting to determine whether it will agree to allow the extension of water service for the proposed development. If the city determines that it is willing to allow the extension of water service to the proposed development annexation or an implied consent agreement with the city will be required, subject to subsection 66-23.V. below, unless the applicant can demonstrate that the public water system satisfies the requirements of section 70-4.
V.
Joint Planning Area annexation and implied consent review
.
A.
Review procedure. When a determination is made that annexation or an implied consent agreement is required, an applicant may request an annexation or implied consent review if the applicant is unable to agree to the terms proposed by the city in an annexation or implied consent agreement. A review request shall be submitted to the director in writing and explain the key provisions in the proposed agreement and why such agreement cannot be achieved. A meeting shall be set before the joint planning commission for review of the agreement within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of the letter. The JPC shall review the applicant's submittals and shall make a determination of whether the city is proposing requirements in the agreement that exceed the then current city development standards and land use code.
B.
Determinations. If a determination is made that the proposed requirements in the agreement do not exceed city development standards and land use code, the applicant shall be required to either annex or enter into the proposed implied consent agreement according to the proposed terms required by the city. If it is determined that such standards have been exceeded, the JPC's determination shall set forth in writing and with specificity the nature and extent of the proposed requirements that exceed the current development standards and land use code. The city shall have twenty-one (21) days after the decision to determine if it is willing to bring the requirements into compliance with the then current city development standards and land use code. If the city does not modify its proposed agreement as required by the JPC, annexation or an implied consent agreement shall no longer be required and the joint planning area development application may be processed with the removal of the requirement that the proposed public water system demonstrate compatibility pursuant to section 70-5. However, the applicant shall still demonstrate the public water system satisfies the requirements of section 70-4.
(
Res. No.
2025-7
, § 66-23, 03/04/2025
)
Effective on: 3/4/2025