Chapter 70: General Site Development Standards Applicable to All Development
Sec. 70-23 Design criteria for open space, trails and parks
I.
Applicability.
This section shall apply to public open space, trails and parks required to be created in conjunction with a proposed development to achieve compatibility or provide an amenity.
II.
Standards.
If open space, trails or parks are contemplated in a development, land reserved or dedicated for such public open space, trail systems or parks shall comply with the following standards:
A.
Connectivity. To the extent practicable, open space and trails shall be organized to create integrated systems of open space that connect with the following types of lands located within or adjacent to a development:
1.
Portions of local, regional, state or national trail and open space systems;
2.
Dedicated public parks or open lands;
3.
Dedicated school sites;
4.
Other dedicated common open space or trails.
B.
Accessibility. To the extent practicable, dedicated open space and trails shall be reasonably accessible to the public.
C.
Easement. All trails shall be platted as public easements, unless located and approved in the public right of way. Development on land on which there is an existing trail easement to public land, shall maintain such easement or substitute comparable easement acceptable to the county and other affected entities.
D.
Public improvements. All trails and parks shall be considered public improvements and shall be constructed subject to terms and conditions of other public improvements in the development.
III.
Additional design standards
. To the extent practicable, open space, trails and parks shall comply with the following design standards:
A.
Dedications for public access shall be at minimum twenty (20) feet in width. Land required for rights-of-way shall be platted as an easement or reflected on a site plan with an easement dedicated separately.
B.
Land used shall be compact and contiguous unless the land is used as a continuation of an existing trail or other linear parks, or unless specific topographic features require a different configuration.
C.
Land shall be left in its natural or existing condition and utilize natural landscaping features wherever possible.
D.
The trail or access easement may overlap and include property previously included in other easements such as utility or conservation easements, and public or private open space easements. However, open space, trail and park easements and dedications shall not compromise the function of any other easement or dedication.
E.
Continuing use and maintenance. All public open space, trails or parks subject to this section shall continue to conform to their intended use, as specified in the land use permit. To ensure that all the public open space, trails or parks identified for the project will be used as intended, restrictions and covenants shall be placed in each deed, plat or separate instrument to ensure their maintenance and to prohibit the division of any public open space, trails or parks. If public open space, trails or parks are proposed to be maintained through an association, district or nonprofit corporation, such organization shall manage all public open space, trails or parks and recreational facilities and shall provide for access and responsibility for the maintenance, administration and operation of the public open space, trails or parks.
(
Res. No.
2020-30
, ยง 70-23, 09/15/2020
)
Effective on: 10/1/2020