Chapter 42 ROADS AND BRIDGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
county
saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(5); any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(10); any ordinance or resolution providing for local
improvements
and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-9(a)(11);
buildings
and building regulations, ch. 18; public places, ch. 38; traffic and
vehicles
, ch. 54;
development
districts, ch. 70; development standards and specifications for roads, bridges and drainage, § 74-16 et seq.; land
use
regulations for public property, ch. 94;
subdivisions
, ch.
102
; zoning, ch.
106
.
ARTICLE V. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS
FOOTNOTE(S):
Cross reference—
Fee schedule, app. A.
State Law reference—
Weight and size limits, C.R.S. §§ 42-4-104, 42-4-106, 42-4-111, 42-4-501—42-4-512.
DIVISION 3. PERMITS
Sec. 42-237. Application information.
The following information must be included in an application for a
permit
:
Annual
transport permit
:
Maximum weight of extra-legal
vehicle
or load.
Maximum height of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum width of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum length of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Copy of vehicle registration and insurance.
Maximum number of axles of the complete
unit
.
Maximum front overhang of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum rear overhang of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Explanation of why
legal limits
of size and/or weight cannot be met.
Applicant
's name.
Applicant's address.
Signature of
owner
,
lessee
or authorized representative.
Land
use
permit, if applicable.
Copy of state transport or
special permit
.
Axle weight or group axle weights, and the distance between axles (centers) in feet and inches, for overweight vehicles.
Single trip transport permit and special permit:
Maximum weight, or for a special permit, a
professional engineer
's estimated weight of the extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum height of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum width of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum length of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Copy of vehicle registration and insurance.
Description of object or load to be moved.
Point of origin and destination of movement.
Identification numbers of
county
highways to be traveled.
Inclusive dates required for movement.
Maximum number of axles of the complete unit.
Axle weight or group axle weights, and the distance between axles (centers) in feet and inches, for overweight vehicles.
Maximum front overhang of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Maximum rear overhang of extra-legal vehicle or load.
Explanation of why legal limits of size and/or weight cannot be met.
Applicant's name.
Applicant's address.
Signature of owner, lessee or authorized representative.
Land use permit, if applicable.
Copy of state transport or special permit.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3(3-3), 9-8-1997)
Effective on: 9/8/1997